Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo , 1977 , p . 113 . Triatominae of approximately 5 mm in length . Overall body color black , with simple yellow pattern elements . Body surface delicately granulose and rugose . Head very short , approximately as long as wide across eyes . Genae inconspicuous . Clypeus widest before middle , its apex slightly convex . Postocular region with sides rounded , convergent behind . Postocular furrow faintly perceptible , straight across at level of posterior border of eyes . Dorsal surface of head between eyes with median longitudinal , apically bifurcate crest . Eyes large , occupying considerable portion of lateral surf ace of head . Antenniferous tubercles inserted close to anterior margin of eyes . Antennae short , with second and fourth articles the longest , third slightly shorter . Second segment with several trichobothria in one row , the two basal ones closely approximated , the apical one longer than the remaining . Pronotum with fore lobe divided by deep longitudinal median sulcus into two strongly convex portions , without tubercles . Constriction between anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum well marked . Posterior lobe rugose , with humeral angles narrow , somewhat flaring ; submedian carinae well developed , almost attaining posterior margin . Scutellum triangular , disc deeply excavated . Posterior process of scutellum slightly longer than body of scutellum , stout , horizontal , subcylindrical , rounded apically . Stridulatory sulcus of prosternum well developed . Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen . Cu inserted at base of inner membranal cell remote from claval suture , curved , closely approaching claval suture halfway to base of hemelytron . R+ M distinct at base , forming short ridge , connected by short branch to Sc ; obsolescent on distal two-thirds , apical division into R and M difficult to observe . Entire corium heavily rugose . Inner cell of membrane much narrower and shorter than outer cell . Legs short . Under surface of femora with several subequal denticles . Tibiae slender , straight ; fore tibiae strongly compressed laterally . Spongy fossulae on first pair of legs in male ( female unknown ) . Tarsi long and slender , three-segmented . Abdomen convex below . Connexivum wide dorsally ; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow , only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates , the latter without ridges . Urosternites irregularly wrinkled , minutely carinulate along base of each urosternite . Spiracles distant from lateral margin of urosternites by several times their own diameter . MALE GENITALIA : Pygophore with short triangular platelike process apically . Articulatory apparatus long and slender , not examined in detail . Basal plate struts very short , apparently fused into an upper platelike apically emarginated structure , and 1 + 1 lower subcircular structures . Dorsal sclerotization of phallus large but faint ; vesica and lateral endosoma processes not observed . Fifth instar nymph : With the characters of the tribe ; setae short but not scalelike ; second rostral article longer than first , third the shortest ; bucculae at base of rostrum distinct ; femora denticulate ; tibiae without spongy fossulae ; tarsi elongate , several times as long as diameter of tibia apically .