Triatoma lenti Sherlock and Serafim Figures 24J ; 94 , 95 Triatoma lenti Sherlock and Serafim , 1967 , p . 76 , figs . I , 5 , 6 , 8-10 , 14-16 . Triatoma pessoai Sherlock and Serafim , 1967 , p . 80 , figs . 2 , 4 , 7 , 11-13 , 17-19 ( new synonymy ) . Triatoma bahiensis Sherlock and Serafim , 1967 , p . 86 , figs . 3 , 20-22 ( new synonymy ) . Triatoma pessoai var . bahiensis : Sherlock and Serafim , 1972 , p . 268 . Length of male 25-26 mm , of female 26 . 5-27 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 5 . 5-6 . 0 mm ; width of abdomen of male 8 . 5-l0 . 0 mm ; of female ll mm . Overall color black , with yellow or orangeyellow markings on neck and connexivum , rarely on corium . Pilosity short and sparse . Head black , feebly rugose and granulosepunctate , approximately twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 45-0 . 50 ) , and distinctly longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 80-0 . 85 ) . Anteocular region four to five times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 20-0 . 25 ) , postocular with sides slightly rounded , distinctly converging toward behind . Clypeus elongate , gradually widened on posterior half . Genae narrowly rounded apically , slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae rounded apically . Eyes small , in lateral view not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . 1-2 . 4 . Antenniferous tubercles unusually long and slender , their apex situated slightly before middle of anteocular region of head . First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . First , second , and extreme base of third segment black , remainder contrastingly yellow . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 4-4 . 25 : 2 . 1-2 . 5 : 1 . 8-2 . 1 . Rostrum black ; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle ; second segment extending approximately to level of center of eye or slightly longer , but invariably falling short of level of hind margin of eyes . Rostral segments stout , subcylindrical , with medium-sized hairs , becoming as long as or longer than diameter of respective segments on upper surface of apical portion of second and on entire third segment , especially numerous on upper surface . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 7-2 . 1 : 0 . 7-0 . 9 . Neck black , with pair of lateral orange-yellow spots . Pronotum entirely black . Anterior lobe feebly sculptured , not granulose , without discal or lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe shallowly rugose . Submedian carinae extending over twothirds or three-fourths of lobe , evanescent posteriorly . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral projections short , stout , rounded apically . Scutellum with median depression shallow , its posterior process elongate , about as long as main body of scutellum , subcylindrical , horizontal , rugose at base , rounded apically . Hemelytra in most cases conspicuously shorter than abdomen ; in males generally not extending beyond base or middle of seventh urotergite ; in female , hemelytra extending to middle or to apical portion of sixth urotergite . Corium and clavus black , membrane fumose , dark brown , with black veins ; small yellowish stripe between apical portion of corium and adjacent area of membrane . Rarely , corium with small basal and somewhat larger subapical spots whitish . Legs uniformly black , slender . Fore femora seven to eight times as long as wide , conspicuously narrowed submedially . Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically . Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Abdomen unusually wide ; lateral portions of urotergites not covered by hemelytra . Venter convex , almost imperceptibly flattened in female , delicately striate transversally , with sparse short setae . Urosternites dark brown or black , except small yellow areas enclosing spiracles . Connexivum black , with disc of each segment occupied by yellow or orange-yellow spot ; size of light-colored spots variable , attaining or not connexival suture , and almost invariably remote from intersegmental sutures and generally closer to anterior than to posterior suture .