Triatoma picturata U singer Figures 143 , 144 Triatoma sp . Mazzotti , 1939a , p . 197 , fig . I Triatoma picturata Usinger , 1939 , p . 47 , Mazzotti , 1940a , p . 98 , pl . 2 , fig . 2 . Islas , 1941 , p . 311 , pis . 1-4 Triatoma phyllosoma picturata : Usinger , 1944 , p60 , pl . 10 , fig . F . Length of male 30 . 5-32 . 0 mm , of female 32-33 mm ; width of pronotum of male 6 . 5-7 . 0 mm , of female 7 . 0-7 . 5 mm ; width of abdomen of male 12-14 mm , of female 12-15 mm Body unusually wide . Overall color dark brown to black , with orange-red markings on neck , hind lobe of pronotum , propleura , occasionally on apex of scutellum , and extensively on corium . Setae numerous , adpressed , short ( 0 . 1-0 . 2 mm on corium , 0 . 2- 0 . 3 mm on pronotum . ) Head black , faintly rugose dorsally along center , not granulose , with stiff decumbent setae . Head about twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 45-0 . 5 ) , and from slightly longer than to as long as pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 85-1 . 0 ) . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 30-0 . 35 ) ; postocular with sides very slightly convex , almost straight , subparallel . Clypeus narrow , distinctly but shortly widened subbasally . Genae very narrowly tapering apically , in some cases pointed , attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt apically . Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 5-2 . 15 . Antenniferous tubercles short , situated slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head . First antennal segment attaining or shortly surpassing level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 3-2 . 5 : 2 . 0-2 . 15 : 1 . 9 . Rostrum as dark as head capsule , its segments narrowly subcylindrical . First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle , second extending to level of hind border of head . Rostral segments with very short setae , only third segment with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 5-1 . 7 : 0 . 5-0 . 6 . Neck dark , laterally with pair of orange red spots . Pronotum moderately constricted at level of transverse sulcus , not granulose , with adpressed setae not longer than 0 . 3 mm Overall color of pronotum black , with orangered areas of varied extension , from almost entirely occupying hind lobe to restricted to portion laterad of submedian carinae . Discal tubercles prominent , from blunt to pointed . Lateral tubercles well developed although smaller than discal ones . Posterior lobe coarsely rugose transversally . Submedian carinae extending over anterior two third of posterior lobe . Humeri slightly elevated , rounded . Anterolateral projections large , elongate conical . Scutellum with median depression shallow but distinct , narrow ; posterior process two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , subcylindrical , horizontal or slightly elevated , rounded distally . Scutellum dark , in some specimens distal half of posterior process reddish orange . Pleura and stema dark , but hind portion of propleura orange colored . Meso and Metastemum with long semierect hairs . Hemelytra fully developed , but leaving in most specimens entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed , due to the unusually wide abdomen . Hemelytra of male attaining or closely approaching hind border of urotergite VII , those of female not extending beyond basal third of urotergite VII . Corium with decumbent or adpressed very short setae ( 0 . 1-0 . 2 mm ) , its overall color dark brown to black , with one large subtriangular basal and one irregularly shaped subapical mark orange-red . Clavus uniformly dark brown . Membrane black . Legs as in phyllosoma . Fore femur 5 . 6-6 . 7 times as long as wide . Venter convex , delicately and shallowly striate transversally , more irregularly so on lateral portions , and with numerous long semierect hairs . Spiracles remote from connexival suture by several times their diameter . Connexivum yellowish or reddish orange , in most specimens examined dorsally with subrectangular black spot on anterolateral portion of each connexival segment , adjoining outer but distant from inner connexival margin . In other specimens , dorsal black connexival spot connected to inner connexival margin by less intense dark area , and in others black spot and adjoining dark area extending posteriorly so as to occupy more than one-half of length of respective connexival spot invariably occupying entire width of connexival plate . Posterolateral angles of urosternites and occasionally urotergites invaded by yellowish orange area adjoining orange portions of connexival segments .