Triatoma pseudomaculata Correa and Espinola Figures 149 , 150 Triatoma pseudomaculata Correa and Espinola , 1964 , p . 116 , figs . 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 , 11-14 . Lucena , 1973 , p . 176 ( pro parte ) . Galviio , 1973 , p . 371 , fip . Th , W , Th , To , . . . . . . M . Length of male 17 -19 mm , of female 19-20 mm ; width of pronotum of male 4 . 0-4 . 8 mm , of female 4 . 5-5 . 0 mm ; width of abdomen of male 5 . 5-7 . 0 mm , of female 6 . 5-7 . 5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black , with yellow or orange-red marks on neck , thorax , corium , and connexivum . Integument almost glabrous , setae very short and sparse . Head uniformly dark brown or black , less high in lateral view than in maculata , delicately granulose , especially at sides . Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes ( l : 0 . 6-0 . 7 ) , and as long as pronotum ( l : 1 ) . Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular ( l : 0 . 30-0 . 35 ) , postocular with sides rounded but strongly converging posteriorly . Clypeus narrow , slightly widened behind middle . Genae tapering or pointed apically , distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae wide-angled apically . Eyes large , in lateral view surpassing level of under and almost attaining level of upper surface of eyes . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l : l . l-1 . 4 . Ocelli large . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus , second slightly compressed , with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antenna} segments 1 : 4 . 0-4 . 8 : 2 . 4-3 . 6 : 1 . 8-2 . 6 . Rostrum dark as head capsule , relatively slender ( as compared to T maculata ) . Setae of rostrum short and sparse on first and second segments but very numerous and longer on third , although not quite as long as diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 4-3 . l : l . O-l . l , viz . , first segment as long as or slightly shorter than third . Neck with I+ 1 lateral yellow or orange spots . Pronotum not distinctly granulose , its overall color from dark brown to black , with variable yellowish or orange-red pattern elements . Discal and lateral tubercles of fore lobe yellowish . Posterior lobe dark , with three pairs of yellow or reddish spots , one pair anterosublateral , one humeral and one posteromedian , the latter in many cases reduced in size , or obsolescent . Anterosublateral and humeral spots either separated or fused , in the latter case forming a single lateral spot on each side . Anterolateral projections light colored . Anterior lobe of pronotum with distinct discal and lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe coarsely wrinkled . Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe . Humeral angles rounded , humeral area distinctly elevated . Anterolateral projections ( 149 , 150C ) prominently conical , in some cases elongate subtriangular as in maculata , in most specimens seen somewhat shorter , subconical . Pleura dark , in most individuals propleura with light spot at posterior margin , in some specimens absent . Mid and hind acetabula spotted with light color in occasional specimens . Scutellum entirely dark , coarsely rugose , with distinct central depression ; sides of scutellum swollen . Posterior process subcylindrical , about as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal but apex slightly upturned , obliquely truncate in lateral view . Hemelytra almost attaining or in some males slightly surpassing apex of seventh urotergite . Overall color of hemelytra dark brown or black . Clavus dark at base , yellowish on apical two-thirds . Corium with subbasal and subapical spots yellow or reddish . Membrane either black and as dark as dark portions of corium , or fumose , brown , distinctly lighter than dark portion of corium , and with veins conspicuously dark . Legs uniformly dark . Fore femur 5 . 0-5 . 5 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles . Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Venter convex , very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female , delicately striate transversally , sparsely setose . Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture . Urosternites dark brown , in some specimens irregularly clouded with yellowish brown ; small lateral area enclosing spiracles yellow . Connexivum light yellow or reddish orange , with wide transversal black bands across entire width of connexival segment , on intersegmental sutures . Light-colored areas of connexivum about as large as dark ones . Male genitalia with endosomal processes denticulate apically .