Triatoma sinica Hsiao Figures 172 , 173 Triatoma sinica Hsiao , 1965 , p . 197 , fig . I . Length of male 22 mm , of female 24 mm ; width of pronotum of female 6 mm , of abdomen 9 . 5 mm Female ( male not examined ) . Overall color dark brown to black , with yellowish or reddish markings on pronotum , scutellum , corium , and connexivum . Body integument highly polished ; pilosity very short and sparse . Head including clypeus and genae heavily rugose transversally on dorsum and only slightly granulose ; dark reddish brown , with sides black dorsally . Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 7 ) , and distinctly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 2 ) . Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 4 ) , postocular with sides rounded . Clypeus elevated in lateral view , rather broad on anterior portion , basal third abruptly widened . Genae tapering but not pointed apically , slightly but distinctly surpassFIG . 172 . Triatoma sinica , female , paratype . A . General aspect . B . Anterior portion of insect , dorsal view , higher magnification . ing level of apex of clypeus . Eyes in side view surpassing level of lower and not attaining level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 7 . Ocelli large , their diameter greater than their distance from hind border of eyes . Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head . First and second antennal segments dark brown or black . First segment slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus and of genae ; second about five times as long as first , only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments ( calculated from measurements given by Hsiao , 1965 ) 1 : 4 . 6 : 2 . 9 : 2 . 4 . Rostrum with short hairs except on apex of second and on third segment , but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments . First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle , second reaching level of hind border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 4-1 . 6 : 0 . 5 . Neck entirely yellowish dorsally . Pronotum highly polished . Anterior lobe with smooth areas dark brown or black , elevated areas yellowish brown . Lateral margins of pronotum with humeri , as well as collar with anterolateral processes light colored . Posterior lobe black , with submedian carinae , a median band arising at transversal sulcus and attaining posterior margin of pronotum , and 1 + 1 sub lateral spots at posterior margin , reddish brown . Pronotum trapezoidal , with sides not constricted at level of transverse sulcus . Anterior lobe not granulose ; submedian carinae of posterior lobe short , not extending beyond middle of hind lobe . Humeral angles rounded , slightly explanate . Anterolateral angles short , rounded or angular apically . Pleura heavily rugose , dark , with acetabula slightly lighter . Scutellum dark , with central depression and posterior process rugose , yellowish brown . Posterior process about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , subcylindrical , its apex rounded . Hemelytra approaching apex of abdomen . Corium dark , with small orange-colored narrow subbasal spot and subapical Ushaped spot . Costal margin narrowly yellow . Membrane smoky brown , lighter than dark portion of corium . Legs uniformly dark brown , stout ; fore femur six times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with 3-4 small setiferous denticles . Tibiae without spongy fossulae ( possibly present in male ) . Abdomen wide , with lateral portions of urotergites not completely covered by hemelytra . Venter distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle , flattened portion not sharply separated from lateral convex portion . Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles ; transverse striation not developed . Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or separated from same by distance less than diameter of spiracle . Pilosity of venter inapparent . Venter dark reddish brown ; connexivum pale yellow , faintly tinged with pink . Each connexival segment at center with irregular shaped transverse black spot wider at outer than at inner margin of segment .