Triatoma spinolai Porter Figures 6E , G ; SC ; 208 , C ; 228 ; 177-180 Triatoma spinolai Porter , 1934 , p . 192 ; 1939 , p . 124 , pl . 8 . Gajardo , 1939 , p . 35 , figs . 1 , 2 . Neiva and Lent , 1940b , p . 355 , figs . 1 , 4 , 5 . Lent and Jurberg , 1967 , p . 273 , figs . 1-42Triatoma chilena Usinger , 1939 , p . 45 Mepraia spinolai : Mazza , Gajardo and Jorg , 1940 , p . 3 , figs . 1-27 . Mazza , Jorg and Gajardo , 1941 , p . 3 , figs . 3-7 , 13-17 , 20-24 . Gajardo , 1954 , p 117Triatomaptera porteri Neiva and Lent , 1940a , p266 ; 1940b , p . 357 , fi--gs . 2 , 3 , 6 ; 1943 , p 62 , figs . 2 , 3 , 6 , pl . 3Sexually dimorphic species ; males macropterous , brachypterous , or micropterous ; females micropterousMacropterous male . Length 18-22 mm , width of pronotum 3 . 5-5 mm , of abdomen 4 . 8-6 . 5 mm Overall color dark brown , connexivum and part of adjacent sclerites red . Dorsal body surface shortly pilose ; antennae , rostrum , legs , and under surface of body with long hairs . Head very dark , transversally rugose dorsally , weakly granulose , narrowly cylindrical , apical portion ( from level of apex of antenniferous tubercles to apex ) conspicuously compressed laterally ; under surface of head with scattered long hairs . Head approximaely twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 45-0 . 50 ) , and much longer than pronotum ( l : 0 . 65-0 . 80 ) . Anteocular region three to four times as long as wide ( l : 0 . 25-0 . 30 ) ; postocular with sides very feebly rounded , almost straight , converging toward behind . Clypeus narrow , slightly widened at apex and gradually so on posterior third . Genae narrowly rounded apically , falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus . Jugae short , blunt apically . Eyes in side view attaining or surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 40-1 . 75 . Ocelli large , their length equal to their distance from eyes . Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment slender , almost glabrous , extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus . Second antennal segment with very numerous semi-erect ciliate hairs about twice as long as diameter of segment , and less numerous scattered elongate bristles from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment ; similar hairs and bristles on third and fourth segments . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 4 . 9 : 3 : 2 . 2 . Rostrum of same color as head . First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle ; second extending to slightly behind level of hind margin of eyes . Rostral segments slender , the second compressed dorsoventrally ; first and second with hairs approximately as long as diameter of segments , but longer than diameter on third segment . Hairs not dense . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2-2 . 8 : 0 . 6-0 . 7 . Neck lighter than head , with l + l very faint lateral spots yellow . Pronotum subtrapezoidal , uniformly dark , although somewhat lighter than remaining parts of body . Anterior lobe deeply sculptured and granulose , without discal or lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe delicately rugose and wrinkled . Submedian carinae extending slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral projections small , conical . Scutellum subtriangular , its surface from rugose to almost smooth , conspicuously elevated , and with median depression from small to indistinct . Posterior process of scutellum extremely small , subconical , only from one-sixth to one-eighth of length of main body of scutellum ; its apex horizontal or upturned . Mesostemum limited posteriorly by prominent transverse straight ridge ; metasternum longitudinally carinate along middle posteriorly . Hemelytra attaining or surpassing apex of abdomen by up to two mm , their color uniformly dark brown . Hind wings as illustrated . Legs uniformly dark , unusually long and slender , especially third pair . Fore femora from 8 to IO times as long as wide . Femora inermous . Fore and mid tibiae with spongy fossulae . Femora and especially tibiae and tarsi in addition to normal hairs with others several times as long as diameter of article . Setae of posterior tarsus shown in figure 1808 . Venter convex , minutely striate transversally , and with delicate elongate semierect setae most numerous on posterior segments , in preserved speciments examined appearing carinate longitudinally along middle . Spiracles close to but not adjoining connexival suture . Ventral connexival plates hinged to dorsal sclerites ; dorsal connexival plates fused to urotergites . Connexivum red , either entirely so , or especially dorsally , each connexival plate on disc with black spot , variable in size , attaining or not lateral margin of sclerite . Red color extending to a varied degree to urostemites , especially along intersegmental suture . Spiracles enclosed in light spot . Male genitalia as usual for genus , but lateral endosoma process large and foliaceous , appearing permanently everted . 8rachypterous male . Similar to macropterous male , but hemelytra and wings abbreviated , only attaining fifth or sixth urotergite , their venation complete . Micropterous male and female . Length of male 17 . 5-19 . 0 mm , of female 19 . 5-21 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 3 mm , width of abdomen of male 5 . 2-6 . 0 mm , of female 6 . 5-8 . 0 mm Overall color black , with red markings on abdomen . Pilosity as in winged form . Head dark , somewhat lighter laterally and ventrally . General structure of head as in winged form ; head approximately twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 45 ) and almost twice as long as pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 5- 0 . 6 ) . Anteocular region close to three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 3 ) ; postocular with sides almost straight , subparallel . Clypeus , genae , and jugae as in winged form . Eyes small , in side view from slightly to considerably distant from level of lower surface and remote from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 7-2 . 1 in male , 1 : 3 . 3-3 . 8 in female . Ocelli small , their length equal to half their distance from eyes . Antenniferous tubercle and first antennal segment as in winged form . Second antennal segment of male with long bristles and ciliate hairs , the latter less numerous than in macropterous male , in female only with long bristles ; setae of third and fourth segments of both sexes as in winged male . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 6-4 . 1 : 3 . 1- 3 . 3 : 2 . 0 . Rostrum as in winged form . Pronotum much reduced in size , subquadrate , posterior lobe about as long as anterior . Anterior lobe conspicuously convex ; elevated ridges delicately granulose . Posterior lobe strongly rugose and wrinkled ; submedian carinae conspicuous , occupying three-fourths of length of hind lobe ; disc of posterior lobe depressed between carinae and between carinae and lateral margins . Posterior margin of pronotum rounded ; lateral borders of posterior lobe emarginated . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral comers as in winged form . Scutellum situated on semicircular sclerite , subtriangular , wider than long , heavily rugose , with an ill-defined , narrow median longitudinal impression , this depression in some specimens imperceptible . Posterior process of scutellum obsolescent . Hemelytra reduced to small suboval sclerites not extending beyond hind margin of mesonotum ; veins absent , but claval suture perceptible . Hind wings reduced to minute pads , all but their extreme apex covered by hemelytra . Legs of male and female as in winged form ; legs of male longer than those of female . Legs of female without spongy fossulae . Venter convex , appearing carinate in preserved males examined , not flattened below in well-preserved females . Surface of urotergites and urostemites with extremely fine transverse striation , coarser on seventh urotergite of male and seventh and eighth urotergites of female . Anterolateral portion of urostemites delicately chagrine . Spiracles as in winged form . Structure of connexivum of male as in winged form . In female dorsal connexival plates fused to urotergites , with vestigial connexival suture perceptible in some cases . Ventral connexival plates of female narrow , hinged to dorsal plates but separated from lateral portion of urostemites by large membranous area . Connexivum red , with variable black markings as in winged form , red color extending to a varied degree to urotergites and urosternites along intersegmental sutures . Dorsal intersegmental sutures separating urotergites reddish in many specimens . Anterior urotergites in some cases reddish at center . Genitalia of male as in winged form .