Triatoma tibiamaculata ( Pinto ) Figures 181-183 Eutriatoma tibiamaculata Pinto , 1926a , p . 134 , figs . C-E ; 1931 , p . IOI , figs . 30 , 39 . Triatoma ( Eutriatoma ) tibia-maculata : Lima , 1940 , p . 199 , fig . 383 . Triatoma tibiamaculata : Del Ponte , 1930 , p . 902 , fig . 2 . Lent , 1943a , p . 242 , figs . 1-5 . Correa , 1954 , p . 5 , figs . I , 2 . Borba and Luz , 1972 , p . 58 . Length of male 29-30 mm , of female 32 . 0-33 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male 7 . 0-7 . 5 mm , of female 7 . 5-8 . 0 mm ; width of abdomen of male IO . 0-IO . 5 mm , of female 11 . 0-12 . 5 mm Overall color black , with red and light orange-brown markings on neck pronotum , scutellum , corium , legs , and connexivum . Pilosity short and sparse , inconspicuous . Head black , slightly granulose-punctate , conspicuously rugose laterally . Head twice as long as wide ( l : 0 . 5 ) , and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum ( l : 1 . 0-1 . 1 ) . Clypeus elongate , slightly widened behind middle . Genae blunt apically , falling distinctly short of apex of clypeus . Jugae small , narrowly angular , apical portion diverging from surface of cephalic capsule . Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l : 1 . 3-1 . 6 . Antenniferous tubercles located behind center of anteocular region of head . First antennal segment with apex very close to level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with numerous short adpressed setae and other , decumbent ones as long as or slightly longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 7-3 . 0 : 2 . 4-2 . 7 : 1 . 7-1 . 8 . Rostrum black ; first segment falling short of apex of antenniferous tubercles ; second segment extending to level of posterior limit of neck . Rostral segments subcylindrical , with short setae , except on third segment with not very numerous setae as long as diameter of article . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 2-2 . 6 : 0 . 4- 0 . 6 . Neck black , with pair of lateral orangebrown spots . Pronotum black , with bright red markings on tubercles and forming narrow stripes . Anterior lobe with l + l discal and l + l lateral red tubercles ; submedian carinae beginning immediately behind discal tubercles , extending close to posterior margin of sclerite , red , with red stripes continuing to hind border of sclerite , their ends connected by transversal red stripe along hind border . Lateral carinae of pronotum undulate , bordered with red from anterolateral processes to humeral angles . Posterior lobe distinctly rugose . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral processes of pronotum prominent , subconical , red . Pleura and stema black , propleura light colored along hind margin . Scutellum black , apex of posterior process contrastingly red ; median depression shallow , narrowly subtriangular . Posterior process of scutellum two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , rugose , conical , wide at base , rounded-obtuse apically . Hemelytra extending to or closely approaching posterior border of seventh urotergite , in both sexes . Corium light orangebrown , in some cases basally tinged with red , and with elongate wide black markings along some veins and in cells . Base of clavus and part of its outer margin dark . Membrane fumose , brownish , veins black . Legs black on coxae , trochantera and femora , the latter with short apical annulus yellowish , similarly colored on extreme base extending in some specimens to trochanter . Tibiae light yellowish brown , their apex annulate with black . Legs long and slender ; fore femora from seven to eight times as long as wide . Femora without subapical denticles . Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males , only on fore tibiae in females . Venter convex , not distinctly flattened , delicately striate transversally , with very short , sparse setae . Spiracles close to or adjoining connexival suture . Urosternites dark brown , spiracles yellowish . Connexivum marked with black and light yellowish brown or reddish brown . Anterior two-thirds of each connexival segment dark , posterior third light ; connexival sutures separating dark and light areas .