Triatoma venosa ( Stal ) Figures 184 , 185 Conorhinus venosus Stal , 1872 , p . lll . Triatoma venosa : Neiva , 1914a , p . 70 . Lent , 1950 , p . 437 , fig . I . Marinkelle , 1972 , p . 15 . Eutriatoma venosa : Pinto , 1931 , p . 104 . Length of male 18 . 5 mm , of female 22 mm ; width of pronotum of male 4 . 5 mm , of female 5 . 0 mm , width of abdomen of male 6 . 5 mm , of female 9 . 0 mm Overall color dark brown or black , with head and legs reddish brown and yellowish or orange-red markings on thorax , hemelytra , and connexivum . Integument rugose , granulose on some areas . Setae slender , short , golden colored1 not conspicuous . Head delicately rugose , reddish brown , dorsally with l+ l black stripes extending from level of base of clypeus to ocellar tubercles , enclosing median longitudinal granulose band . Head about twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 4-0 . 5 ) , and slightly longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 9 ) . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 33 ) , postocular with sides very faintly rounded , distinctly converging toward behind . Clypeus narrow , elongate , slightly widened on posterior half . Genae rounded distally , almost attaining level of apex of clypeus . Eyes in side view attaining level of lower but remote from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 4 . Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region . First and second antennal segments dark brown or black ; first very short , not extending beyond basal two-thirds of gena . Second antennal segment with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 0-3 . 3 : 2 . 8-2 . 9 : 1 . 8 . Rostrum dark brown , darker than reddish head capsule , with short , inconspicuous setae . First rostral segment short , not extending beyond level of center of gena ; second segment very long and slender , attaining level of hind border of head ; third as long as or longer than first . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 3 . 2-3 . 5 : 1 . 0-l . l . Neck uniformly reddish brown . Pronotum black , with orange-red markings . Anterior lobe with one central reddish spot extending from collar to transversal furrow , and 1 + l sublateral shorter markings . Posterior lobe with elongate red markings , one central and 1+ 1 sublateral , all extending from transverse furrow to posterior border of pronotum . Lateral and posterior margins of pronotum bordered with red except area of submedian dark markings which extend to hind border . Anterolateral angles red . Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal but without lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe rugose and slightly granulose . Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of pronotum . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral projections shortly subcylindrical , rounded apically . Scutellum black , heavily rugose , its posterior process red , stout , two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , subcylindrical , rounded-truncate apically . Pleura black , with extensive reddish or yellowish areas . Hemelytra reaching apex of abdomen . Clavus , corium , and membrane black , with veins conspicuously yellowish and bordered with yellow . Base of corium with Vshaped marking extending onto subbasal portion of clavus . Apex of corium yellowish red . Cells of membrane unicolorous . Legs dark reddish brown , stout ; fore femur about six times as long as wide . Femora faintly granulose as sides and below ; femora of all pairs of legs subapically with two or three unusually large denticles . Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Abdomen rounded below , minutely striate transversally . Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture . Pilosity of venter inconspicuous , delicate , ad pressed . Venter dark brown , spiracles yellowish . Connexivum black , with narrow transversal yellowish red markings straddling intersegmental sutures , with red area occupying anterior segment larger than that on posterior segment .