Triatoma vitticeps ( Stal ) Figures 86 ; 186-188 Conorhinus vitticeps Stal , 1859 , p . 109 Triatoma vitticeps : Neiva , 1914a , p . 71 . Del Ponte , 1930 , p . 905 , pl . 53 . Pinto , 1931 , p . 62 , fig . 9 Triatoma chagasi Brumpt and Gomes , 1914 , p . 75 , fig . 1Triatoma holmbergi Del Ponte , 1923 , p . 66 ; 1925 , p28 , pl . I , fig . BTriatoma chagasi var . holmbergi : Del Ponte , 1930 , p . 865 , pl . 42 , fig . 1Triatoma neivai Del Ponte , 1923 , p . 66 ; 1925 , p . 30 , pl . I . fig . CTriatoma chagasi var . neivai : Del Ponte , 1930 , p867 , pl . 42 , fig . 2 . Length of male 27 . 5-33 . 0 mm , of female 28 . 5-38 . 0 mm ; width of pronotum of male 7-8 mm , of female 7 . 0-8 . 5 mm ; width of abdomen of male 10 . 0-13 . 5 mm , of female 10 . 0-14 . 5 mm Overall color very dark brown tending toward black , with reddish brown or orange-red markings on head , neck , pronotum , pleura , scutellum , hemelytra , and connexivum . Pleura and under surface of thorax and abdomen dull . Pilosity short and sparse . Head dark brown , dorsally along center with reddish brown band extending from level of ocelli to clypeus . Head feebly rugose and granulose , less than twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 6 ) and distinctly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 1-1 . 2 ) . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 35 ) , postocular with sides straight , converging toward behind . Clypeus abruptly widened on posterior half . Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed , attaining or slightly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae pointed apically , terminal portion toothlike , in some cases diverging from surface of head capsule . Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 9-2 . 4 . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly beyond middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Second article with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 0-3 . 2 : 2 . 2-2 . 7 : 1 . 9-2 . 0 . Rostrum as dark as head capsule ; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercles ; second segment extending to or beyond level of hind margin of eyes . Rostral segments stout , subcylindrical ; dorsal surface of second and third segments , and under surface of apical third or half of second , and entire third segment with dense long hairs , many longer than diameter of respective segment . Remainder of rostrum with sparse short hairs . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 7-1 . 9 : 0 . 8 . Neck dark brown , with a pair of lateral yellow spots . Pronotum dark brown , with reddish pattern elements . Anterior lobe faintly granulose , with 1 + 1 small , low , reddish discal protuberances ; in some specimens , lateral tubercles in shape of low protuberances also perceptible . Posterior lobe rugose . Submedian carinae relatively short , evanescent on posterior third . Humeral angles rounded . Posterior lobe of pronotum dark brown , with three pairs of reddish brown markings ; 1 + I on lateral portion of lobe extending to humeral angles ; 1 + 1 sublateral markings lateral of submedian carinae extending for whole length of posterior lobe , and I+ I shorter submedian markings separated medially only by central longitudinal sulcus of posterior lobe . Size of reddish markings variable , in some cases more extended than described above , partly confluent ; in some specimens almost entire anterior lobe reddish , or pronotum with entire lateral and posterior margin narrowly bordered with red . Anterolateral projections reddish brown , large , truncate or subconical , slightly flattened dorsoventrally . Scutellum rugose and faintly granulose , dark brown , with central depression wide , reddish . Posterior process of scutellum about as long as main body of scutellum , subcylindrical , horizontal , with apex rounded and slightly elevated . Propleura posteriorly with reddish spot of variable extension , in some cases occupying almost entire pleura . Anterior acetabula variously marked with reddish . Hemelytra in most specimens attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite , only rarely slightly shorter . Color of hemelytra dark brown , darkest at center of corium and at base of membranal cells . Corium with light markings basally or subbasally or both , subapically , and in some cases also narrowly along costal margin . Portion of Cu in corium and portions of veins enclosing basal half of inner membranal cell very light colored and bordered with light . Membrane fumose , dark brown . Legs uniformly dark . Fore femora slender , six to seven times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with pair of welldeveloped denticles subapically . Fore and mid tibiae with spongy fossulae in both sexes . Venter convex , slightly flattened longitudinally along middle , delicately striate transversally , and with short setae . Spiracles adjoining or very close to connexival suture . Urosternites dark brown , except small light spots enclosing spiracles . Connexivum extensively dark brown , disc of segments with yellowish or light orange-red transverse markings distinctly smaller than dark areas ; light markings coming closer to posterior than to anterior intersegmental sutures . Yellow markings of under surface of connexivum in some cases smaller than corresponding ones on dorsal surface .