Triatoma williami Galvao , Souza and Lima Figures 189 , 190 Triatoma williami Galvao , Souza and Lima , 1965 , p . 363 , fig . I . Galviio , Souza and Lima , 1967 , p . 400 , figs . Travassos Filho , 1972 , p . 263 , fig . 1 . Galviio and Fuentes , 1971 , p . 141 , figs . 1-3 . Length of male 25 . 0-25 . 5 mm , of female 26-28 mm ; width of pronotum of male 5 . 5 mm , of female 6 mm ; width of abdomen of male 8 . 5-9 . 0 mm , of female 10 . 0-10 . 5 mm Overall color dark brown to black , with yellow markings on neck , hemelytra , and connexivum . Pilosity short and sparse . Head black , delicately rugose and granulose , approximately twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 45-0 . 50 ) , and distinctly longer than pronotum ( l : 0 . 8-0 . 9 ) . Anteocular region four times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 25 ) , postocular with sides straight , distinctly converging posteriorly . Clypeus elongate , gradually widened on posterior half . Genae narrowly tapering apically , distinctly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae angular apically . Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under and approaching level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l : l . 25-l . 45 . Antenniferous tubercles located at center of anteocular region of head . First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 4 . 9- 5 . 1 : 3 . 2 : ? Rostrum as dark as head or lighter brown ; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle , second attaining level of posterior margin of eyes . Rostrum slender , with short hairs except on third segment where hairs are as long as diameter of segment although not very dense . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 3-2 . 6 : l . O-l . 05 . Neck dark , with pair of lateral yellowish spots . Pronotum entirely black . Anterior lobe feebly sculptured , not granulose , without discal or lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose . Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral projections small , conical , subacute apically . Scutellum uniformly dark , with shallow median depression ; posterior process shortly subconical , not more than half as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , wide at base , very narrowly rounded apically . Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite in both sexes . Clavus dark at base and along outer margin . Corium light yellowish brown with veins dark , in some places veins also bordered with dark . Membrane fumose , grayish brown , darker than light colored areas of corium ; veins of membrane conspicuously dark . Legs uniformly dark , long and slender . Fore femora 7-8 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically . Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Venter convex , slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female , not distinctly so in male , delicately striate transversally , with sparse , very short setae . Spiracles adjoining connexival suture . Abdomen wide , extreme lateral portions of urotergites exposed , not covered by hemelytra . Urosternites dark brown , except minute yellow spots enclosing spiracles . Connexivum pale yellow , segments with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment , and dorsally but not ventrally darkened along connexival suture .