Triatoma wygodzinskyi Lent Figures 191-193 Triatoma wygodzinskyi Lent , l95lb , p . 349 , figs . l-3 . Length of male 19 . 0-19 . 5 mm , of female 19-20 mm ; width of pronotum of male 4 . 5-5 . 0 mm , of female 4 . 0-4 . 5 mm ; width of abdomen of male 6 . 0-6 . 5 mm , of female 6 . 5-7 . 0 mm Overall color black , with reddish markings on neck , humeral region of pronotum , corium , and connexivum . Integument almost glabrous , setae very short and sparse . Head black , rugose anterolaterally , granulose dorsally , less than twice as long as wide ( l : 0 . 6 ) and as long as pronotum . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 35 ) , postocular with sides rounded and converging toward behind . Clypeus long and narrow , only slightly widened behind middle . Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed , distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt apically . Eyes in side view considerably surpassing level of lower and approaching level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 3-1 . 4 . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus ; second antenna ) segment 4 . 5 times as long as first ( remaining not preserved ) . Rostrum from reddish brown to black . Second and third segments somewhat compressed dorsoventrally , slender in lateral view . Rostrum appearing glabrous , except third segment with numerous distinct but short hairs . First segment attaining level of apex of jugae , viz . , not reaching to apex of antenniferous tubercles ; second attaining level of hind margin of eye . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 2-2 . 4 : 1 . 0 . Neck dark , with pair of very small reddish spots laterally . Pronotum black , with distinct reddish spot on each humeral region , and , in some specimens , with large spot on disc between carinae posteriorly . Anterior lobe not granulose , without discal and lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled ; submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of lobe . Humeral angles narrowly rounded . Anterolateral projections prominent , conical , not flattened -dorsoventrally . Scutellum with distinct median depression . Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical , about three-fourths as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal with apex slightly upturned , distally rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view . Process uniformly dark . Hemelytra extending to apex of seventh urotergite , in both sexes . Corium dark brown , with extensive areas subbasally , subapically and at center , reddish . Base of clavus also reddish , its remainder light brown . Membrane fumose , light brown , lightest at base ; veins distinctly darker than cells . Legs uniformly dark . Fore femora 5-6 times as long as wide . Femora of fore and mid legs with a pair of small subapical denticles . Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Venter convex , very slightly flattened in female , delicately striate transversally , sparsely beset with short setae . Spiracles adjoining connexival suture . Urosternites uniformly dark , except minute light colored spot enclosing spiracles . Connexival segments with central two-thirds occupied by light red spot extending across entire width of segment , thus transverse narrow black band straddling intersegmental suture . Male genitalia with endosomal processes not over half as long as phallosoma , weakly sclerotized , their apices with about 20 teeth .