Linshcosteus confumus Ghauri Figures 204 , 205 linshcosteus confumus Ghauri , 1976 , p . 184 , figs . 5-8 , 15 , 16 , 20 , 23 , 25 , 26 , 28 . Length of male 21 . 8 mm , of female 23 . 2 mm ; width of pronotum of male 4 . 8-5 . 0 mm , of female 5 mm ; width of abdomen of male 9 . 0 mm , of female 10 . 6-10 . 8 mm Overall color very dark brown or black . Pilosity short , inconspicuous . Head with numerous setiferous granules except on narrow band along middle ventrally . Head very slender , almost three times as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 35 ) , and much longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 7 ) . Anteocular region approximately four times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 25-0 . 30 ) ; postocular with sides faintly rounded , widest behind middle ; postocular region only very slightly convex below . Oypeus strongly widened on its posterior half , but not conspicuously elevated in side view . Genae narrowly tapering apically , extending beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae acute but not pointed apically . Eyes in lateral view closely approaching level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . 3-2 . 5 . First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of first and second antennal segments ( only one specimen examined for this character ) 1 : 5 . 2 . Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with scattered setae longer than its diameter . Apex of first rostral segment approaching or attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle ; second segment extending beyond level of anterior margin of eyes , third segment extending distinctly beyond level of hind margin of eyes . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 90-2 . 05 : 0 . 55 . Pronotum black , sides carinate . Anterior lobe not strongly elevated , ridges granulose . Posterior lobe rugose , wrinkled , granulose ; submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe . Humeral angles broadly rounded . Anterolateral projections small , subconical , narrowly tapering but not pointed apically . Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally , its center only shallowly depressed . Posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , conical , narrowly tapering apically . Hemelytra of male extending to middle of seventh urotergite but only to base of seventh urotergite in female . Clavus and corium black . Membrane fumose , dark greyish brown , with faint cloudy dark reddish brown pattern elements ; veins of membrane faintly reddish brown . Legs uniformly black , slender ; fore femora 6-7 times as long as wide . Venter as described for L . costalis .