Panstrongylus diasi Pinto and Lent Figures 216-218 Panstrongylus diasi Pinto and Lent , 1946 , p . 461 , figs . 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 , 9 , 10 , 13 , 14 , 17 . Correa and Carvalho , 1956 , p . 80 , figs . 1-3 . Lent and Jurberg , 1975 , p . 391 , figs . 1 ( part ) , 2 ( part ) , 29-47 . Length of male 26 mm , of female 27 mm ; width of pronotum of male 6 . 5 mm , of female 7 . 0 mm ; width of abdomen of male and female 9 . 5 mm Overall color yellowish brown , with darkbrown areas on pronotum , pleura , scutellum , corium , and connexivum . Body surface appearing glabrous . Head uniformly brown , shallowly rugose dorsally along middle , otherwise smooth , polished . Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes ( l : 0 . 60-0 . 65 ) , and much shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 3 ) . Anteocular region less than twice as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 60-0 . 65 ) ; postocular with sides rounded . Clypeus narrow , widened posteriorly . Genae narrowly tapering apically , not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt apically . Head not conspicuously elevated between eyes , its surface flat in lateral view . Eyes in side view extending in both sexes below level of ventral surface of head but remote from dorsal . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . 3-2 . 8 . Antenniferous tubercles with small but distinct apicolateral process . Antennae dark brown . First antennal segment extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by about one-third of its own length . Second antennal segment with short adpressed bristles , shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of first and second antennal segments 1 : 2 . 6-3 . 1 : ? : ? . Rostrum as shown in figure 218C . First rostral segment extending close to level of anterior margin of eyes , second extending to level of base of neck . First and second rostral segments almost entirely glabrous or with short sparse setae only , third segment with numerous setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 45 : 0 . 60-0 . 65 . Pronotum light reddish brown , with the following areas dark brown : center of collar , anterior lobe of pronotum anteriorly at middle behind collar and in longitudinal furrow , posterior lobe with large central longitudinal mark as wide as space separating submedian carinae anteriorly but gradually tapering posteriorly , as well as 1+ 1 sublateral markings in areas between submedian and lateral carinae , these markings most conspicuous and largest anteriorly and posteriorly ; posterior margin also dark except on posterolateral angles . Anterior lobe of pronotum moderately convex , its surface even , ridges faint ; discal and lateral tubercles absent . Lateral carinae of anterior and posterior lobes almost continuous , not forming a distinct angle . Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly but not deeply rugose . Submedian carinae low , evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral projections of pronotum short and blunt . Scutellum dark brown , posterior process dark or light reddish brown . Scutellum conspicuously rugose , with shallow depression . Posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , narrowly cylindrical , rounded apically . Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen ; their color yellowish brown , with large central area of corium dark brown ; clavus light brown . Membrane fumose , slightly lighter colored than dark areas of corium . Legs slender , with fore femora about six times as long as wide . Fore femora armed with one pair of strong subapical denticles followed or not by one additional , small denticle , or with one denticle only ; mid femora with similar denticles , or unarmed . Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae in both sexes . Legs uniformly dark brown . Venter with short inconspicuous setae . Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their diameter . Suture between urosternites II and III absent . Venter brownish yellow , darkened laterally . Connexivum yellowish brown , anterior half or third of each connexival plate with black subrectangular spot , adjacent to intersegmental suture . MALE GENITALIA : Vesica with lateral projections . Lateral endosoma process not denticulate .