Panstrongylus humeralis ( Usinger ) Figures 230 , 231 Mestor humeralis Usinger , 1939 , p . 38 ; 1944 , p . 46 , pl . 8 , fig . cPanstrongylus humeralis : Lent and Pifano , 1940 , p 631 . Lent , 1943b , p . 492 , figs . 7-9 . Lent and Jurberg , 1974 , p . 409 , figs . 1 ( part ) , 2 ( part ) , 116-138 . Length of male 27 . 0-27 . 5 mm , of female 30-32 mm ; width of pronotum of male 8 mm , of female 9 mm ; width of abdomen of male 9-10 mm , of female 11 . 5-12 . 0 mm Overall color light brown dorsally and dark brown or black below . Markings of dorsal surface complex , dark brown or black , present on head , pronotum , scutellum , hemelytra , and connexivum . Overall color of legs ferrugineous . Body surface with short , goldencolored setae , most distinct on head . Head light brown , with dark markings as follows : a median stripe extending from level of jugae to level of anterior margin of ocelli , stripe wide anteriorly , narrowed toward behind ; antenniferous tubercles , genae , bucculae , base of ocelliferous tubercles and entire under surface of head . Integument of head faintly rugose and punctuate above . Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 70-0 . 75 ) , and much shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 35-1 . 45 ) . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 30-0 . 35 ) ; postocular with sides rounded , strongly converging toward behind . Clypeus narrow , slightly widened on posterior half . Genae narrowly tapering apically , falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus . Jugae with conspicuous slightly curved spinelike projection . Head not strongly elevated between eyes dorsally . Eyes large , in side view surpassing level of under surface of head in both sexes but distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 7-2 . 0 ( 1 : 1 . 75-1 . 85 in males , 1 : 1 . 85-2 . 0 in females ) , viz . , eyes of females slightly smaller than those of males . Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process . Antennae with first and second articles black . First antennal segment almost attaining level of apex of clypeus ; second with stiff setae as long as diameter of segment , and , mostly on under surface , with numerous short sensory hairs . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 4-2 . 8 : 2 . 25-2 . 65 : 1 . 8-2 . 1 . Rostrum black . First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles , second extending to level of middle of neck . First and most of second segment only with very short inconspicuous hairs , somewhat longer setae on apex of second segment ; third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 20-1 . 25 : 0 . 4-0 . 5 . Pronotum with hind lobe unusually wide . Overall color of pronotum light brown with narrow longitudinal markings . Anterior lobe slightly convex , elevated areas faintly granulose , with 1 + 1 large although not high discal tubercles , followed posteriorly by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae ; lateral tubercles present , well developed although smaller than discal ones . All tubercles mentioned yellow , polished . Posterior lobe coarsely rugose , conspicuously flaring posterolaterally . Humeral angles salient , rounded , narrowly explanate . Collar of general body color , with faint dark spot at center and I+ l small markings at base of anterolateral processes , the latter large , elongate subtriangular , flattened dorsoventrally . Scutellum light yellowish brown , with median dark longitudinal marking , basally as wide as central depression , almost linear apically , extending to dorsum of posterior process to close to its apex . Median impression of scutellum shallow , rugose ; lateral portions of scutellum wide and flat , smooth . Posterior process of scutellum short , half or less than half as long as body of scutellum , conspicuously humped at base , apical portion slightly widened , rounded , elevated in lateral view . Pleura light colored , acetabula and sutures between sclerites dark . Stema dark . Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of abdomen , light brown , with complex dark brown or black pattern elements on corium and membrane , as illustrated ; base of membranal cells conspicuously sooty black . Legs with coxae black ; trochantera yellow , remaining segments rust colored . Femora with subapical annulus black , base of femora adjacent to trochanter yellow . Tibiae with basal and apical annulus black . Femora of first and second pair with I+ l subapical denticles . Fore and mid tibiae with well developed spongy fossulae , in both sexes . Venter convex , distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle , in both sexes . Urosternites delicately striate transversally . Setae of venter short , sparse , inconspicuous . Spiracles adjoining connexival suture . Suture between urostemites II and Ill well developed . Urosternites dark brown or black ; spiracles contrastingly yellow . Connexivum light orangebrown ; each segment anteriorly with short black marking adjacent to intersegmental suture ; posterior margin of dark spots deeply emarginate on upper connexival plates , straight across or oblique on ventral connexival plates . MALE GENITALIA : Vesica with short lateral projections . Lateral endosoma processes with denticles on entire apical portion .