Panstrongylus lenti Galvao and Palma Figures 232 , 233 Panstrongylus lenti Galviio and Palma , 1968 , p . 403 , figs . 1-4 . Lent and Jurberg , 1975 , p . 409 . figs . 139-148 . Female ( only specimen known ) . Length 19 mm ; width of pronotum 5 mm ; of abdomen 7 . 5 mm Overall color very light reddish brown , with dark markings on pronotum , hemelytra , pleura and abdomen with connexivum . Head light yellowish brown , very faintly rugose transversally on dorsum along middle , otherwise smooth , polished . Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 65 ) and distinctly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 2 ) . Anteocular region slightly less than twice as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 55 ) , postocular short and wide , with sides slightly convex , converging toward behind . Oypeus widened posteriorly . Genae narrowly rounded apically , attaining level of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt apically . Head not conspicuously elevated above . Eyes in lateral view exceeding level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . Antenniferous tubercles with small but distinct apicolateral process . First antennal segment reddish brown , falling short of apex of clypeus ; remaining segments not preserved . Rostrum as shown in figure 233C . First rostral segment attaining level of anterior margin of eyes , second extending to level of center of neck . First and second rostral segments almost glabrous , third with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 1 : 0 . 5 . Pronotum of general body color ; hind lobe with entire area between submedian carinae and lateral borders , and inner portion of areas between submedian carinae and lateral borders dark brown . Anterior lobe convex , elevated areas low . Discal tubercles small but distinct , rounded , subconical in side view . Lateral tubercles obsolete . Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly and irregularly wrinkled . Submedian carinae low , evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral projections of pronotum well developed , subconical . Scutellum with process dark brown , rugose , central depression well developed , extending onto base of posterior process . Process elongate , as long as main body of scutellum , subhorizontal , narrowly cylindrical , rounded at apex . Pleura and sterna of general color , posterior margin of propleura darkened . Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen . Corium and clavus pale yellow , except cell adjoining clavus and extreme apex of corium which are brown . Membrane brown , fumose , base of membranal cells and closely adjacent areas darker brown . Legs uniformly light yellowish brown . Fore femora five times as long as wide . Apical half of fore femora with three pairs of small denticles . Spongy fossulae absent . Mid legs not preserved . Abdominal venter shortly pilose . Spiracles distant from connexival suture by approximately three times their own diameter . Suture between urosternites II and III obsolescent . Abdomen of general body color . Urosternites IIIVI each with 1 + 1 conspicuous black sub lateral spots . Dorsal connexival plates III and IV with very small blackish spots near anterior border .