Paratriatoma Barber , 1938 , p . 104 , Neiva and Lent , 1941 , p . 62 . Usinger , 1944 , p . 47 . Ryckman , 1971 , p . 88 . Lent and Jurberg , 1971 , p . 39 . Triatoma ( laratriatoma ) Lima , 1940 , p . 188 . Triatomini . Small insects ( 12 . 5-14 . 5 mm ) . Body not flattened . Body and appendages covered with numerous elongate , declinate or semierect , minutely spinose black setae . Head elongate subconical or ovoid , strongly convex above . Antenniferous tubercles situated behind middle of anteocular portion of head . Rostrum as long as head , extending to level of prosternum . First rostral segment much shorter than second but longer than third ; third without rostral organ . Fore lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles . Humeral angles rounded . Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus . Scutellar spine narrowly subcylindrical . Legs with femora unarmed ; spongy fossulae absent . Abdomen narrow . Venter convex , slightly flattened along middle longitudinally . Lateral portions of urosternites overlapping mesial portion of connexival segments , the latter connected to margin of urosternites by expandable membrane . Median process of pygophore narrowly triangular , pointed . Fifth instar nymph : Body surface delicately granulose . Body , antennae , and legs with very long erect or decumbent minutely spinulose setae ; genae not projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus ; eyes situated laterally behind middle of head ; fourth antennal segment not or only slightly longer than any of the preceding ; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate ; stridulatory sulcus present ; fore and mid femora slightly incrassate , with a few small setiferous tubercles subapically but without denticles ; femora without trichobothria ; fore tarsi shorter than half the length of tibiae ; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along midline . First instar nymph : Head , thorax , and abdomen uniformly pigmented , without conspicuous markings and not mottled ; setae very elongate , spinulose ; fourth antennal segment not longer than first , second and third combined ; stridulatory sulcus present ; mesonotum in shape of transversal band , only very slightly longer at midline than at sides ; metanotal plates small , distance between plates more than twice their width ; femora without trichobothria ; hind tarsi apically without specialized hairs ; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows .