Triatoma amicitiae@ unusually small, in lateral view not quite attaining level of lower surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma arthurneivai@ in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface and approaching level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma barberi @ in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal but very close to level of under surface of head. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ in lateral view attaining level of under surface but remote from upper surface of head. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma breyeri@ large, in lateral view surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ in lateral view surpassing level of under surface but remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma costalimai@ small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from upper surface of head. 
Triatoma delpontei@ in lateral view attaining or falling slightly short of level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma dimidiata@ in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma dispar@ in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ large, in lateral view surpassing level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma flavida@ in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@ in lateral view approaching level of upper and attaining or slightly surpassing level of lower surface of head. 
Triatoma guasayana@ in lateral view attaining level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma guazu@ large, in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower and but little distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma hegneri@ large, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not quite attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma incrassata@ remote from level of dorsal and almost attaining level of under surface of head. 
Triatoma indictiva@ in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma infestans@ in lateral view very close to or attaining level of under surface of head but remote from level of its upper surface. 
Triatoma lecticularia@ in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma lenti@ small, in lateral view not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma limai@ in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma longipennis@ in side view from barely attaining to slightly surpassing level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma maculata@ very large, in lateral view considerable surpassing level of under, and almost attaining level of upper, surface of head. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ in lateral view attaining or closely approaching level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ in lateral view invariably attaining level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma mexicana@ prominent, in lateral view extending below level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma migrans@ distinctly surpassing level of under surface and close to level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma neotomae@ in lateral view remote from level of upper but very close to level of under surface of head. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head, and in dorsal aspect from slightly narrower to slightly wider than synthlipsis (l:0,9-1,2). 
Triatoma nitida@ in lateral aspect remote from level of dorsal but extending very close to level of ventral surface of head. 
Triatoma obscura@ in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma oliveirai@ small, in lateral view close to but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ in lateral view approaching or attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma patagonica@ in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ Yery small, in lateral view not attaining level of upper and lower surface of head. 
Triatoma petrochii@ small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ in most cases not attaining, very rarely slightly surpassing level of under surface and invariably distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma picturata@ in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma platensis@ in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma protracta@ in lateral view attaining levels of upper or lower surface of head. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ large, in lateral view surpassing level of under and almost attaining level of upper surface of eyes. 
Triatoma pugasi@ in lateral view distinctly surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma rubida@ in lateral view distinctly surpassing level of under surface of head. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ in lateral view attaining level of under surface but remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ in lateral view slightly surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ in side view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface of head, remote from level of upper surface. 
Triatoma sinica@ in side view surpassing level of lower and not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma sordida@ in lateral view attaining level of under and approaching but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma spinolai@ in side view attaining or surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma venosa@ in side view attaining level of lower but remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma williami@ in lateral view surpassing level of under and approaching level of upper surface of head. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ in side view considerably surpassing level of lower and approaching level of upper surface of head. 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ in lateral aspect attaining level of lower and closely approaching level of upper surface of head. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ in lateral aspect attaining level of upper and of lower surface of head. 
Linshcosteus carnifex@ in lateral view extending close to level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Linshcosteus chota@ in side view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Linshcosteus confumus@ in lateral view closely approaching level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Linshcosteus costalis@ in side view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Linshcosteus kali@ in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface, but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ in side view extending below level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ in side view extending in both sexes below level of ventral surface of head but remote from dorsal. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ in lateral view extending below level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ in lateral view comparatively small, remote from level of upper surface of head; eyes of male extending ventrally below level of under surface of head, but those of female not quite attaining level of under surface of head. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ in side view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head, in lateral view. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ large, in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ large, in side view surpassing level of under surface of head in both sexes but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ in lateral view exceeding level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ large in both sexes, in lateral view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ in side view remote from level of upper but projecting below level of lower surface of head. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ large, in side view considerably surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@ large in most specimens, in lateral view surpassing level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ in side view extending below level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ small, in lateral view not attaining levels of under and upper surface of head, more distant from latter than from former. 
Rhodnius Stal@ from medium-sized to large. 
Rhodnius brethes@ large, attaining level of under and in lateral view attaining or closely approaching level of upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius domesticus@ medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@ medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius nasutus@ medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius neglectus@ medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius neivai@ comparatively small, in lateral view not quite attaining level of lower and distant from level of upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius pallescens@ medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius pictipes@ large, in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. 
Rhodnius prolixus@ medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. 
Rhodnius robustus@ large, in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Psammolestes Bergroth@ medium sized. 
Psammolestes arthuri@ small, in lateral view not attaining level of lower surface of head. 
Psammolestes coreodes@ large, in lateral view attaining or not, but not surpassing, level of lower and closely approaching level of dorsal surface of head. 
Psammolestes tertius@ large, in lateral view attaining level of under and closely approaching level of upper surface of head. 
Cavernicola Barber@ small. 
Cavernicola pilosa@ small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of ventral and distant from level of dorsal surface of head. 
Bolbodera Valdes@ small, in lateral view not attaining levels of upper and lower surface of head. 
BELMINUS ST@ medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. 
Belminus costaricensis@ in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. 
Belminus herreri@ in lateral view attaining level of lower but not of upper surface of head. 
Belminus peruvianus@ in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal or ventral surface of head. 
Belminus rugulosus@ in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head; ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2,20-2,35. 
Parabelminus Lent@ medium-sized, in lateral view surpassing level of ventral but not attaining level of dorsal surface of head. 
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@ medium-sized, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head. 
Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo@ large, occupying considerable portion of lateral surf ace of head. 
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@ in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under and cl sely approaching level of upper surface of head. 
