Triatoma amicitiae@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second falling slightly short of level of posterior border of head. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ extending to level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second to level of apex of middle of eyes. 
Triatoma breyeri@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending beyond level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma carrioni@ only reaching to level of center of genae; second segment very long and slender, attaining level of ocelli, 
Triatoma cavernicola@ attaining level of insertion of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma costalimai@ attaining or slightly surpassing level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma dispar@ short, not extending beyond middle of genae, second very long and slender, reaching to level of posterior border of head; third longer than first. 
Triatoma flavida@ not attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck; third shorter than first. 
Triatoma guasayana@ very short, extending only to level of apex of jugae, second not quite reaching level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma infestans@ attaining level of apex of jugae, 
Triatoma leopoldi@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma limai@ very short, not attaining basal third of distance between apex of antenniferous tubercle and apex of head. 
Triatoma maculata@ not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ falling considerably short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending to level of posterior border of eyes. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ extending to level of middle of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. 
Triatoma mexicana@ attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of base of neck. 
Triatoma migrans@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ unusually short, not extending beyond middle of distance from apex of antenniferous tubercles to level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma obscura@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment reaching to neck; third segment shorter than first. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second extending to level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma patagonica@ attaining level of apex of jugae, second extending to level of posterior margin of eyes. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ attaining level of middle of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of neck. 
Triatoma pugasi@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of middle of neck. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of posterior border of head. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ attaining level of apex of jugae, second attaining level of hind border of eyes. 
Triatoma ryckmani@ almost attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind margin of head. 
Triatoma sinica@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second reaching level of hind border of head. 
Triatoma sordida@ very short, not quite extending to level of apex of jugae, second attaining level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma venosa@ short, not extending beyond level of center of gena; second segment very long and slender, attaining level of hind border of head; third as long as or longer than first. 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ extending to or slightly beyond middle of distance from antenniferous tubercle to anterior margin of eye. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ extending to middle or beyond middle of space between antenniferous tubercle and anterior margin of eye. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of hind border of head. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of middle of neck. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ extending close to level of anterior margin of eyes, second extending to level of base of neck. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ approaching or extending to or slightly beyond level of anterior margin of eyes; second rostral segment attaining level of middle of neck. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of middle of neck. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of middle of neck. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ attaining level of anterior margin of eyes, second extending to level of center of neck. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of neck. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles or, rarely, of anterior margin of eyes; second segment extending to level of middle of neck. 
Paratriatoma Barber@ much shorter than second but longer than third; third without rostral organ. 
Rhodnius neivai@ attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second extending slightly beyond level of ocelli but not reaching neck. 
