Triatoma amicitiae@ attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma arthurneivai@ extending to apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Triatoma barberi @ falling short of apex of abdomen by 0,5-1,0 , in either sex; uniformly dark colored. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ almost attaining apex of abdomen in males and in some females; in other females not extending beyond mjddle of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ extending to variable levels from base to apex of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma breyeri@ -closely approaching or attaining apex of abdomen; corium uniformly black; membrane fumose, greyish brown. 
Triatoma carrioni@ reaching apex of abdomen, black. 
Triatoma cavernicola@ attaining or slightly surpassing middle of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ attaining or closely approaching apex of urotergite VII. 
Triatoma costalimai@ attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Triatoma deanei@ attaining apex of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma delpontei@ attammg apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes. 
Triatoma dimidiata@ attaining apex of abdomen but leaving female genital segments exposed, and in some cases surpassing apex of abdomen in male. 
Triatoma dispar@ covering entire length of abdomen, including genitalia of female. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ attaining apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma flavida@ slightly variable in length, reaching to seventh urotergite, in some cases not extending beyond its basal third, in others covering urotergite completely. 
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@ in most specimens attaining apex of abdomen, in some individuals, mainly females, falling short of apex by 0,5 to 1,0 Overall color of hemelytra from dark brown to black, somewhat lighter on and adjacent to apex of clavus. 
Triatoma guasayana@ attaining or surpassing apex of seventh urotergite in male, in female more variable in length, from falling short of apex of seventh urotergite by up to 2 to closely approaching it. 
Triatoma guazu@ attaining apex of eighth urotergite, their overall color pale. 
Triatoma hegneri@ attaining apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma incrassata@ falling short of apex of abdomen by 0,5 in female, practically attaining apex of abdomen in male; of general body color, but membrane dark brown, fumose, somewhat lighter colored along base. 
Triatoma indictiva@ attammg apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma infestans@ falling short of apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Triatoma lecticularia@ attaining apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma lenti@ in most cases conspicuously shorter than abdomen; in males generally not extending beyond base or middle of seventh urotergite; in female, hemelytra extending to middle or to apical portion of sixth urotergite. 
Triatoma leopoldi@ attaining apex of abdomen in male; in female extending only slightly beyond center of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma limai@ attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma longipennis@ and wings fully developed although appearing narrow as compared to unusually wide abdomen, leaving extreme lateral portions of urotergites exposed. 
Triatoma maculata@ closely approaching or attaining apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes; their color from light to very dark brown , with veins of membrane and of central portion of corium contrastingly blackish. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ approaching or attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite in male, approaching base of seventh urotergite in female. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ and wings of normal size, but leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites of unusually wide abdomen exposed. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma mexicana@ from approaching to slightly surpassing apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma migrans@ extending to apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Triatoma neotomae@ attammg or surpassing middle of eighth urotergite. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ attaining apical margin of urotergite VII, in both sexes. 
Triatoma nitida@ almost reaching apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma obscura@ attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite, their overall color blackish, with almost imperceptible light-colored areas. 
Triatoma oliveirai@ much shorter than abdomen, attaining or slightly surpassing limit between sixth and seventh urotergites. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ and wings leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed. 
Triatoma patagonica@ approaching or attaining apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Triatoma petrochii@ attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ and wings short and narrow, leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed. 
Triatoma picturata@ fully developed, but leaving in most specimens entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed, due to the unusually wide abdomen. 
Triatoma platensis@ closely approaching, attaining or slightly surpassing apex of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma protracta@ almost attaining apex of abdomen, their color from brownish in light colored to almost black in dark specimens, in some cases membrane lighter than corium, and the latter with faint light-colored subapical spot; rarely center of corium darker than rest of hemelytra. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ almost attaining or in some males slightly surpassing apex of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma pugasi@ attaining apex of abdomen in male, reaching to posterior margin of seventh urotergite in female. 
Triatoma recurva@ uniformly dark, those of male attaining or slightly surpassing apex of abdomen, those of female only attaining base or at most middle of urotergite VIII. 
Triatoma rubida@ extending close to apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ variable in length, in most specimens reaching only to basal portion or at most to middle of seventh urotergite, but in some males attaining apical portion of said urotergite. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ attaining apex of seventh urotergite in males and in some females, in other females not projecting beyond middle of seventh urotergite. 
Triatoma ryckmani@ attaining apex of abdomen, appearing narrow compared to wide abdomen, leaving entire connexivum and narrow lateral portion of urotergites exposed. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ attaining apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma sinica@ approaching apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma sordida@ closely approaching or attaining apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Triatoma spinolai@ attaining or surpassing apex of abdomen by up to two , their color uniformly dark brown. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ extending to or closely approaching posterior border of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Triatoma venosa@ reaching apex of abdomen. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ in most specimens attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite, only rarely slightly shorter. 
Triatoma williami@ attaining apex of seventh urotergite in both sexes. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ extending to apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
ERATYRUS STAL@ with corium (except cell adjoining clavus) covered with conspicuous short erect bristles. 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ covering entire length of abdomen, but leaving genitalia of female exposed. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ covering entire abdominal length, but leaving genitalia of female exposed. 
Linshcosteus carnifex@ attaining apex of eighth urotergite. 
Linshcosteus chota@ leaving apical third of eighth urotergite exposed. 
Linshcosteus confumus@ of male extending to middle of seventh urotergite but only to base of seventh urotergite in female. 
Linshcosteus costalis@ of male falling slightly short of apex of seventh urotergite, those of female extending only slightly beyond base of seventh urotergite. 
Linshcosteus kali@ of male and female falling short of apex of seventh urotergite. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ fully developed but falling slightly short of apex of abdomen; those of male extending to middle of urotergite VII, those of female extending at least to base of urotergite VII but not beyond base of urotergite VIII. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ approaching hind margin of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ extending to apex of abdomen; their color yellowish brown, with large central area of corium dark brown; clavus light brown. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes; their overall color light brown or light yellowish brown, with veins, especially those of membrane, conspicuously darker. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ extending close to apex of seventh urotergite. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ closely approaching tip of abdomen, light yellowish brown or yellow, with complex dark brown and black pattern elements as illustrated in figure 225. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ attaining apex of abdomen, their overall color pale yellowish brown, extreme base of corium and spot close to apex dark, cu-pcu cross-vein with short adjacent portions of other veins conspicuously darkened; apical two-thirds or three-fourths of membranal cells with some adjacent areas also darker brown. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ closely approaching or attaining apex of abdomen, light brown, with complex dark brown or black pattern elements on corium and membrane, as illustrated ; base of membranal cells conspicuously sooty black. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ attaining apex of abdomen. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ closely approaching apex of abdomen, light brown, with complex dark brown or black pattern elements as illustrated in figures 234, 235. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ extending close to apex of abdomen. 
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@ extending to apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ of male extending to apex of abdomen, but only to middle of seventh urotergite in female . 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ attaining apex of abdomen in male, extending to seventh or base of eighth urotergite in female. 
Rhodnius Stal@ almost attaining apex of abdomen. 
Rhodnius brethes@ dark brown to blackish on corium and membrane, with veins included in prominent light brown bands. 
Rhodnius domesticus@ pale, with corium reddish brown and membrane faintly pigmented. 
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@ straw colored including veins; spaces between veins with irregularly shaped dark stripes and spots, dotted with lighter. 
Rhodnius nasutus@ light reddish brown, with veins narrowly pale yellow; veins of cells and apical extracellular space suffused with lighter color at center. 
Rhodnius neglectus@ dark brown, with veins lighter colored. 
Rhodnius neivai@ falling considerably short of apex of abdomen, not extending much beyond base and at most reaching middle of seventh urotergite. 
Rhodnius pallescens@ straw-colored, clouded with darker, some of the dark areas dotted with lighter color. 
Rhodnius paraensis@ dark brown; narrowly yellowish brown at base. 
Rhodnius pictipes@ straw-colored; corium with numerous irregular small dark spots; membrane rugose; intracellular and extracellular areas dark, with central faintly lighter colored confluent spots. 
Rhodnius prolixus@ with veins narrowly margined with pale yellow, remainder of hemelytron dark brown, uniform on corium, brown areas on membrane observable with diffuse illumination. 
Rhodnius robustus@ dark brown, veins very conspicuously although narrowly bordered with light color; space between veins uniformly dark on corium, suffused with light on membrane. 
Psammolestes Bergroth@ attaining or almost attaining apex of abdomen; their veins normally developed. 
Psammolestes arthuri@ of male attaining, those of female falling very slightly short of, apex of abdomen. 
Psammolestes coreodes@ of male attaining, of female approaching, apex of abdomen. 
Psammolestes tertius@ attaining apex of abdomen in both sexes, of general body color, with cells of membrane distinctly darkened. 
Cavernicola Barber@ almost attaining apex of abdomen. 
Cavernicola pilosa@ as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 2930. 
Bolbodera Valdes@ almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Bolbodera scabrosa@ black, with corium red on its posterior two-thirds; a whitish line separating corium from membrane. 
BELMINUS ST@ falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Belminus costaricensis@ as shown in figures 289, 299, attaining level of center of seventh urotergite. 
Belminus herreri@ attaining basal third of seventh tergite in male (hemelytra of female not examined). 
Belminus peruvianus@ and wings as in generic description and figures 304, 305C, F, not quite attaining center of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. 
Belminus rugulosus@ almost attaining level of posterior border of tergite VII. 
Parabelminus Lent@ falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Parabelminus carioca@ and hind wings as in generic description and figures 309, 310, 3110. 
Parabelminus yurupucu@ much as in carioca, yellowish spots slightly smaller. 
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@ almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. 
Microtriatoma borbai@ and hind wings as in trinidadensis, but membrane of hemelytra concolorous dark . 
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@ and hind wings as in general description and figures 316, 317. 
Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo@ attaining apex of abdomen. 
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@ as in generic descriptions and figures 319A, 320F. 
