Triatoma arthurneivai@ entirely black, only very rarely humeral area tinged with orange. 
Triatoma barberi @ entirely dark, trapezoidal, with sides delicately carinate, only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ light reddish brown; darkbrown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four longitudinal dark stripes on posterior lobe, I+ l in area between submedian carinae and lateral margin of pronotum, and I+ l in space between carinae, adjacent to same. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ very sparsely granulose, from dark brown to black, in some cases entirely dark, more frequently with some or all of the following yellow:collar, anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of fore lobe, submedian carinae along their entire length, a pair of large, elongate, subrectangular markings on hind lobe laterad of carinae, and narrower markings parallel to lateral margins. 
Triatoma breyeri@ uniformly dark. 
Triatoma carrioni@ dark brown or black. 
Triatoma cavernicola@ with anterior lobe slightly granulose, almost flat, without discal or lateral tu bercles; its color uniformly light. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ with anterior lobe from dark brown to black, posterior lobe pigmented as anterior lobe, or from partially to entirely bright red . 
Triatoma costalimai@ entirely dark brown or black. 
Triatoma deanei@ black. 
Triatoma delpontei@ of general body color, from matte to slightly polished, covered with adpressed setae less numerous than in T platensis. 
Triatoma dimidiata@ uniformly piceous or black. 
Triatoma dispar@ of general reddish brown color. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ uniformly dark, its surface in most cases highly polished, rarely only slightly polished or dull. 
Triatoma flavida@ of general body color; smooth area of fore lobe black, impressions of posterior lobe dark brown. 
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@ of general body color, distinctly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. 
Triatoma guasayana@ sparsely granulose, blackish, in some specimens with anterior and lateral tubercles of anterior lobe and with apex of anterolateral projections yellowish. 
Triatoma guazu@ entirely black. 
Triatoma hegneri@ with anterior lobe black, posterior lobe contrastingly dark reddish brown. 
Triatoma incrassata@ uniformly dark, trapezoi dal, with sides conspicuously diverging toward behind, delicately carinate, only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. 
Triatoma indictiva@ uniformly piceous or black, almost imperceptibly lightened on posterior lobe. 
Triatoma infestans@ uniformly shining black. 
Triatoma lecticularia@ dark, with 1+ 1 orange bands on lateral margins of posterior lobe, narrow anteriorly, becoming wider posteriorly and extending onto humeri; posterior margin of pronotum in some specimens lighter colored, as are submedian carinae and collar with anterolateral processes; in some specimens, dark areas of posterior lobe of pronotum reduced to one wide median and 1 + 1 sublateral stripes, with orange color extending as 1 + 1 wide lateral and 1+ 1 submedian spots occupying carinae and triangularly widened posteriorly, confluent behind with lateral markings. 
Triatoma lenti@ entirely black. 
Triatoma leopoldi@ dark brown or black, with collar and anterolateral processes, lateral margins, elevated areas of anterior lobe, and large central spot and lateral areas of posterior lobe, light reddish brown. 
Triatoma limai@ uniformly dark brown, in some cases humeri slightly lighter. 
Triatoma longipennis@ uniformly dark brown or black, in some specimens with small orange spot on humeri. 
Triatoma maculata@ not distinctly granulose, its overall color from dark brown to black. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ dark brown or reddish brown, with l+ 1 yellowish brown spots on humeri. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ dark brown, with I+ l yellowish brown oval markings on disc of anterior half of posterior lobe, laterad of submedian carinae. 
Triatoma mexicana@ uniformly black. 
Triatoma migrans@ reddish brown; dark brown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four dark longitudinal stripes on posterior lobe, I+ I in areas between submedian carinae and outer border and 1 + 1 in space between carinae, adjacent to same. 
Triatoma neotomae@ subquadrate, with sides carinate, not constricted at level of transverse sulcus. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ light yellowish brown, with conspicuous black markings. 
Triatoma nitida@ subquadrate, with sides carinate, not distinctly constricted laterally at level of transverse sulcus. 
Triatoma obscura@ of general color. 
Triatoma oliveirai@ black, with I+ l large humeral spots yellowish. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ black, strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with numerous short, strongly decumbent or adpressed setae not longer than 0,3  and scutellum otherwise as in phyllosoma . 
Triatoma patagonica@ polished, black, in some specimens outer margin of anterolateral processes narrowly yellow. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ of general body color, smooth, trapezoidal, carinate laterally, only very slightly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. 
Triatoma petrochii@ very sparsely granulose, dark brown, yellow on collar, on discal callosities and in some cases on lateral margins of anterior lobe, on entire submedian carinae and on humeral area. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ black, strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with numerous long erect hairs pointing in several directions. 
Triatoma picturata@ moderately constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with adpressed setae not longer than 0,3 Overall color of pronotum black, with orangered areas of varied extension, from almost entirely occupying hind lobe to restricted to portion laterad of submedian carinae. 
Triatoma platensis@ brown, matte. 
Triatoma protracta@ from light brown to black, smooth, carinate laterally, trapezoidal, only very slightly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ not distinctly granulose, its overall color from dark brown to black, with variable yellowish or orange-red pattern elements. 
Triatoma pugasi@ uniformly orangebrown. 
Triatoma recurva@ with sides conspicuously constricted at level of transversal sulcus. 
Triatoma rubida@ dark, with sides, posterior margin, humeral angles and anterolateral processes light colored, with in some cases several or all of these regions dark. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ dark brown or black, with sides and anterolateral processes reddish, in some cases also collar light colored; occasionally, red color invading central portion of hind lobe of pronotum. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ with anterior lobe invariably black; posterior lobe rarely entirely black or entirely red, in most specimens with area between submedian carinae, with carinae included, black to a varied degree . 
Triatoma ryckmani@ dark brown, light to varied degree on sublateral carinae, borders of posterior and ridges of anterior lobes. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ with fore lobe slightly granulose; discal tubercles very low or imperceptible; lateral tubercles missing. 
Triatoma sinica@ highly polished. 
Triatoma sordida@ sparsely granulose, brown, in most specimens with anterolateral processes and elevated areas of anterior lobe including tubercles yellow; humeri invariably with yellow mark. 
Triatoma spinolai@ subtrapezoidal, uniformly dark, although somewhat lighter than remaining parts of body. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ black, with bright red markings on tubercles and forming narrow stripes. 
Triatoma venosa@ black, with orange-red markings. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ dark brown, with reddish pattern elements. 
Triatoma williami@ entirely black. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ black, with distinct reddish spot on each humeral region, and, in some specimens, with large spot on disc between carinae posteriorly. 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ with numerous short stiff bristles. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ with anterior lobe almost smooth, ridges poorly developed. 
Linshcosteus carnifex@ black, its sides not carinate. 
Linshcosteus chota@ with sides carinate. 
Linshcosteus confumus@ black, sides carinate. 
Linshcosteus costalis@ black, in some specimens with anterolateral projections, lateral margin 
Linshcosteus kali@ black, its sides carinate. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ black, polished. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ black, with orange-red markings as follows:apex of anterolateral projections, discal tubercles, lateral carinae of fore lobe and 2 + 2 spots along hind border of sclerite, 1 + I on humeral angles and l + 1 at level of submedian carinae. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ light reddish brown, with the following areas dark brown:center of collar, anterior lobe of pronotum anteriorly at middle behind collar and in longitudinal furrow, posterior lobe with large central longitudinal mark as wide as space separating submedian carinae anteriorly but gradually tapering posteriorly, as well as 1+ 1 sublateral markings in areas between submedian and lateral carinae, these markings most conspicuous and largest anteriorly and posteriorly; posterior margin also dark except on posterolateral angles. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ light orangebrown. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ with anterior lobe light reddish brown, posterior lobe from uniformly light reddish brown to entirely dark brown, in some specimens dark color less extensive, with area of lateral margin and submedian carinae lighter. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ with posterior lobe unusually wide. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ black; orange-red on anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of anterior Jobe and lateral carinae with lateral tubercles. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ with hind lobe unusually wide. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ of general body color; hind lobe with entire area between submedian carinae and lateral borders, and inner portion of areas between submedian carinae and lateral borders dark brown. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ with posterior lobe unusually wide. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ with anterior lobe entirely black, rarely with I+ I small reddish marks between dorsal tubercles and collar, or with tubercles reddish; posterior lobe black, with 2+2 large red markings on posterior half or third, 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ with collar and anterior lobe reddish brown or dark brown. 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ with anterior lobe slightly convex, without discal or lateral tubercles. 
Rhodnius Stal@ with sides carinate. 
Rhodnius brethes@ black, with l+I submedian longitudinal light brown stripes extending from collar over submedian carinae to hind border of pronotum; stripes thus dividing pronotum into three black areas. 
Rhodnius domesticus@ with submedian carinae and lateral ridges bright yellow. 
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@ with anterior lobe granulose and posterior lobe granulose-rugose. 
Rhodnius nasutus@ with anterior lobe granulose and posterior lobe granulose-rugose, the latter with area between submedian carinae dark, faintly subdivided by median light-colored stripe; the 1 + 1 areas between submedian carinae and lateral border with dark stripes confluent, forming uniform dark area. 
Rhodnius neglectus@ with anterior lobe almost entirely smooth, posterior lobe rugosegranulose. 
Rhodnius neivai@ without special features, uniformly dark. 
Rhodnius pallescens@ with anterior lobe slightly granulose, with irregularly shaped dark spots; posterior lobe rugose and granulose, overall aspect of hind lobe mottled. 
Rhodnius paraensis@ with anterior lobe feebly granulose, posterior lobe distinctly, irregularly rugose. 
Rhodnius pictipes@ with posterior lobe granulose-rugose; basic color dark brown or black, with granules light colored; overall aspect mottled. 
Rhodnius prolixus@ with submedian carinae and lateral margins light yellowish brown. 
Rhodnius robustus@ as inprolixus, but anterolateral angles less prominent . 
Psammolestes Bergroth@ with sides carinate; its surface smooth, without tubercles or granules. 
Psammolestes arthuri@ conspicuously flattened, light brown; densely beset with short yellowish setae except on smooth dark areas on fore lobe. 
Psammolestes coreodes@ not conspicuously flattened, of general body color; fore lobe and anterolateral angles with small irregularly shaped black areas. 
Psammolestes tertius@ not conspicuously flattened, of general body color; anterior lobe with numerous dark brown spots. 
Cavernicola Barber@ convex, strongly declivous anteriorly, its surface dull, smooth, or faintly rugose, without dorsal or lateral tubercles. 
Cavernicola pilosa@ as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 293E. 
Bolbodera Valdes@ with anterior lobe narrow; median constriction prominent. 
Bolbodera scabrosa@ and upper portion of propleura uniformly red; rest of thorax, including scutellum, black. 
BELMINUS ST@ with fore lobe narrow; median constriction prominent. 
Belminus costaricensis@ of general body color, its shape as shown in figures 297, 298. 
Belminus peruvianus@ black, its shape as shown in figure 304. 
Belminus rugulosus@ black, most heavily granulose on fore lobe, with 7 + 7 distinct tubercles. 
Parabelminus Lent@ with anterior lobe covered by setiferous granules forming distinct pattern; anterolateral angles short. 
Parabelminus carioca@ as shown in figures 309, 310, 311; median constriction not pronounced, sides of anterior and posterior lobes forming an almost straight line. 
Parabelminus yurupucu@ bell-shaped, median constriction pronounced, sides of anterior and posterior lobes meeting at conspicuous angle, 
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@ with anterior lobe granulose, posterior lobe rugose-granulose; anterolateral angles short; discal and lateral tubercles absent. 
Microtriatoma borbai@ as in trinidadensis; anterolateral angles pointed in most specimens . 
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@ of general body color, its shape as shown in figures 316, 317, 318A; sides of anterior and posterior lobes almost continuous, not forming conspicuous angle. 
Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo@ with fore lobe divided by deep longitudinal median sulcus into two strongly convex portions, without tubercles. 
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@ piceous, gradually lighter toward behind; humeri and anterolateral angles yellowish white. 
