Triatoma Laporte@ as long as head, extending to level of prosternum; first rostral segment invariably much shorter than second; third without rostral organ. 
Triatoma amicitiae@ with short setae on all segments, slightly longer on apex of second and on third segment. 
Triatoma arthurneivai@ reddish brown, lighter than head capsule. 
Triatoma barberi @ with relatively short hairs, somewhat longer toward apex of second and uniformly Jong on third segment. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ with short, inconspicuous setae except on apex of second and on third segment, but not numerous and not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ thick, as dark as head capsule, with mediumsized hairs on first and on underside of second segment, and with long and very numerous hairs on upper surface of second and on entire third segment; hairs especially dense dorsally at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma breyeri@ light brown, not so dark as head. 
Triatoma carrioni@ dark brown or black, with short inconspicuous setae. 
Triatoma cavernicola@ with sparse short hairs except those on third segment which are more numerous and as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ in most specimens light brown, contrasting with dark head. 
Triatoma costalimai@ as dark as head or somewhat lighter. 
Triatoma deanei@ reddish brown, relatively stout; first segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma delpontei@ as dark as head. 
Triatoma dimidiata@ slender; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior border of head. 
Triatoma dispar@ reddish brown, with short, inconspicuous setae. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ reddish brown, lighter than head capsule. 
Triatoma flavida@ slender, with short inconspicuous setae except scattered long hairs on distal segment. 
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@ with very short and sparse setae, longest and most numerous on third segment. 
Triatoma guasayana@ from yellowish to light brown, contrasting with dark head. 
Triatoma guazu@ dark reddish brown; first article falling slightly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma hegneri@ with very short, inconspicuous hairs, becoming longer only on third segment. 
Triatoma incrassata@ with relatively short hairs, the latter becoming longer at apex of second and uniformly long on third segment. 
Triatoma indictiva@ only with short, scattered hairs; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of neck. 
Triatoma infestans@ as dark as or distinctly lighter colored than head. 
Triatoma lecticularia@ conspicuously hairy, especially on second and third segments; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of neck. 
Triatoma lenti@ black; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending approximately to level of center of eye or slightly longer, but invariably falling short of level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma leopoldi@ with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment, setae not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma limai@ of same color or only slightly lighter than head. 
Triatoma longipennis@ dark reddish brown to black. 
Triatoma maculata@ as dark as head capsule, relatively stout. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ yellowish brown, lighter than head capsule, very slender. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ dark brown or black. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ as dark as head capsule; first segment extending to level of insertion of antennae, second extending slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma mexicana@ slender, with very short and sparse setae, becoming slightly longer on third segment. 
Triatoma migrans@ with short, inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment, but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma neotomae@ with hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segment. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ black, very slender. 
Triatoma nitida@ with hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma obscura@ slender, with inconspicuous short setae, but scattered long setae on apical segment. 
Triatoma oliveirai@ dark reddish brown; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ dark reddish brown to in most cases black. 
Triatoma patagonica@ as dark as head capsule or more or less reddish. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ with long hairs, not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma petrochii@ slender, practically glabrous, except for group of long hairs at apex of third segment. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ with first segment dark brown or black, second and third segments dark or light reddish brown. 
Triatoma picturata@ as dark as head capsule, its segments narrowly subcylindrical. 
Triatoma platensis@ as dark as head. 
Triatoma protracta@ with short hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second segment, uniformly long on third segment, but not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ dark as head capsule, relatively slender (as compared to T maculata). 
Triatoma pugasi@ with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma recurva@ slender, first and second segments with very short, sparse setae, third with a few long hairs. 
Triatoma rubida@ stout, with short setae except at apex of second and base of third segment where there are very long, dense hairs. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ with abundant pilosity, hairs short on first and basal half of second segment, becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, but not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ as dark as head capsule or with second and third segments reddish. 
Triatoma ryckmani@ slender, with very short hairs only. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ with sparse, very short setae only; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of base of neck. 
Triatoma sinica@ with short hairs except on apex of second and on third segment, but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. 
Triatoma sordida@ as dark as head capsule, or, more frequently, with some or all segments very light yellowish brown. 
Triatoma spinolai@ of same color as head. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ black; first segment falling short of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment extending to level of posterior limit of neck. 
Triatoma venosa@ dark brown, darker than reddish head capsule, with short, inconspicuous setae. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ as dark as head capsule; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment extending to or beyond level of hind margin of eyes. 
Triatoma williami@ as dark as head or lighter brown; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior margin of eyes. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ from reddish brown to black. 
ERATYRUS STAL@ as long as head, slender, extending to level of prosternum; first and second segments elongate, although first not quite as long as second; third very short, without rostral organ. 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ of same color as head capsule, slender, segments subcylindrical. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ dark reddish brown, slightly lighter than head capsule, slender, segments subcylindrical. 
Linshcosteus Distant@ abbreviated, shorter than head, not extending to level of prosternum. 
Linshcosteus chota@ with hairs shorter than diameter on first and most of second segment, as long as or longer than diameter at apex of second and on third segment. 
Linshcosteus confumus@ with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with scattered setae longer than its diameter. 
Linshcosteus costalis@ with hairs shorter than diameter of respective segments, only third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment. 
Linshcosteus kali@ with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment. 
Dipetalogaster Usinger@ as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ black or dark reddish brown. 
Panstrongylus Berg@ as long as head, extending to level of prostemum. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ as shown in figure 215A. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ as shown in figure 218C. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ dark brown. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ as shown in figure 2248, its first segment attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; second segment extending to level of base of neck. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ black. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ comparatively stout. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ black. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ as shown in figure 233C. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ black. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ as shown in figure 2398; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second segment extending to level of base of neck. 
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@ with first and second articles black, thirddark reddish brown. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ as shown in figure 2480, E; first segment as long as or slightly longer than second, extending beyond level of anterior margin of eyes; second segment attaining level of center of neck. 
Paratriatoma Barber@ as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ subcylindrical, with long setae on all articles. 
Rhodnius Stal@ attammg prostemum, slender, subcylindrical, slightly flattened dorsoventrally. 
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@ as shown in figure 2588; second segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of ocelli but not attaining neck. 
Rhodnius nasutus@ as shown in figure 2618; second segment attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:3,4-3,7:0,9-1,0. 
Rhodnius neglectus@ as shown in figure 2648; second segment attaining neck. 
Rhodnius pallescens@ as shown in figure 2708; ratio of rostral segments 1:3,7-4,6:0,9-1,2. 
Rhodnius pictipes@ as shown in figure 2758; second segment attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:3,9-4,5:0,9-1,2. 
Rhodnius prolixus@ as shown in figure 2788. 
Rhodnius robustus@ as shown in figure 281A; second segment extending beyond level of ocelli, almost attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:4,1-4,4:0,9-1,0. 
Psammolestes Bergroth@ strongly flattened dorsoventrally, first and third segments short, subequal, second segment twice as long as first. 
Psammolestes tertius@ as shown in figure 290C. 
Cavernicola Barber@ attaining prostemum, with first and third segments very short, second much longer. 
Cavernicola pilosa@ with first segment very short, not attaininglevel of apex of antenniferous tubercle; secondsegment very long, attaining level of hindborder of head; third segment short. 
Bolbodera Valdes@ attaining prostemum, subcylindrical, only slightly compressed dorsoventrally; first segment short, attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second about twice as long as first; third the shortest. 
Bolbodera scabrosa@ with sparse, short, inconspicuous setae; ratio of antennal segments 1:2,5:0,6. 
BELMINUS ST@ attaining prosternum, subcylindrical, only very slightly compressed dorsoventrally; first and second segments elongate, subequal in length, third very short. 
Belminus costaricensis@ with first segment closely approaching level of center of eye, second segment shorter, third shortest; ratio of length of segments 1:0,70:0,35. 
Belminus herreri@ with basal segment falling slightly short of level of anterior border of eyes; ratio of rostral segments 1:0,90:0,45. 
Belminus peruvianus@ with first segment not extending beyond level of posterior third of anteocular region; ratio of rostral segments 1:1,0:0,45. 
Belminus rugulosus@ with first segment not quite attaining level of anterior border of eyes; ratio of antennal segments 1:0,75-0,85:0,4-0,5. 
Parabelminus Lent@ attaining prosternum, distinctly flattened dorsoventrally; first and third segment shortest, second much longer. 
Parabelminus carioca@ as in generic description and figure 311; ratio of rostral segments 1:2,8:0,9. 
Parabelminus yurupucu@ as shown in figure 313B. 
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@ attaining prostemum, distinctly flattened; first segment attaining level of insertion of antennae. 
Microtriatoma borbai@ as shown in figure 315A; ratio of rostral segments 
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@ as in generic description and figure 3188, I, N, P, X; ratio of segments 1:1,5-1,7:0,7-0,8. 
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@ as in generic description and figure 3208; second and third segments slightly flattened. 
