Triatomini Jeannel@ with 4-10 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of segment. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ only with adpressed setae, shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma breyeri@ with numerous semierect ciliate hairs twice as long as diameter of segment, and less numerous regularly spaced elongate bristles from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment ; similar hairs and bristles on third and fourth segments. 
Triatoma carrioni@ with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ comparatively thick, beset with longitudinal rows of stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma dispar@ with decumbent setae of two sizes, the larger ones slightly longer than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ as in spinolai , 
Triatoma flavida@ with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma leopoldi@ only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma limai@ comparatively thick, very slightly flattened, beset with longitudinally arranged stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma maculata@ slightly compressed, beset with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ (remaining not preserved) about three times as long as first, with semierect setae almost as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma migrans@ only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma patagonica@ flattened, beset with numerous setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ only with short adpressed setae. 
Triatoma pugasi@ only with adpressed setae much shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ flattened, with numerous adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma spinolai@ with very numerous semi-erect ciliate hairs about twice as long as diameter of segment, and less numerous scattered elongate bristles from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment; similar hairs and bristles on third and fourth segments. 
Triatoma venosa@ with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ with approximately seven trichobothria, three closely spaced at and near base, four more widely spaced along entire length of segment . 
Panstrongylus diasi@ with short adpressed bristles, shorter than diameter of segment. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ with inclined stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs. 
RHODNIINI PINTO@ with 4-6 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, and two ancillary trichobothria laterad of base of main row. 
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@ light brown on basal three-fifths, slightly speckled with darker; apical two-fifths dark brown. 
Cavernicola Barber@ with three closely spaced subbasal trichobothria, as well as one median and one subapical one. 
BOLBODERINI USINGER@ with 1-4 trichobothria arranged in a single row. 
