TRIATOMINI JEANNEL@TRIATOMINI JEANNEL Triatomini Jeannel, 1919, p. 176; Usinger, 1944, p. 36. Triatominae Pinto, 1926c, p. 485. Small- to large-sized Triatominae (9.5-42.0 mm long). Body integument from smooth to rugose, with or without small setiferous granules. Body from glabrous to heavily hirsute. Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection. Antenna inserted from very close to anterior margin of eye to center of anterior half of anteocular region of head. Genae from falling short of to slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, the latter widened at base, narrow apically. Ocelli situated posterolaterally behind eyes, in most cases on conspicuous elevations, behind interocular sulcus, the latter not fully developed. Head without setiferous callosities behind eyes. Second antennal segment with 4-10 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of segment. Remaining setae of second antennal segment not of uniform size. Corium with veins distinct. Abdomen in most cases with well-developed dorsal and ventral connexival segments, the latter not covered by urosternites; in some cases, dorsal connexival segments fused with urotergites, with ventral connexival segments either well developed or obsolescent, in latter case dorsal and ventral surface of abdomen laterally separated by wide membranous area. Genitalia of male. Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge. Basal plate struts narrow, rodlike, elongate, separate, extending almost along entire length of phallosoma, fused apically or not. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma large, subsemi-elliptical. Vesica heavily sclerotized in many cases. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface delicately or strongly granulose or rugose, glabrous or with short setae, if setae long, then spinulose; head not or very rarely strongly convex dorsally; genae not or only slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus; eyes situated laterally at or behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles without prominent apicolateral process; fourth antennal segment not or only slightly longer than any of the preceding; fourth or third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present in most genera (except Linshcosteus, genus with abbreviated rostrum); fore and mid femora slender or incrassate, with or without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without or with series of large tubercles dorsally along midline. First instar nymph: Head, thorax and legs uniformly dark or with light-colored annuli, never mottled; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present, rarely absent; mesonotum longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates large, distance between plates varied; femora without trichobothria; hind tarsi apically with or without numerous long, delicate sensory hairs; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows, very rarely three irregular rows. Eggs laid singly.
Triatoma Laporte@Triatoma Laporte Triatoma Laporte, 1832, p. 11; 1833, p. 77. Kirkaldy, 1900, p. 241. Van Duzee, 1917, p. 247. Neiva, 1911a, p. 421; 1914a, p. 18. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 860. Pinto, 1931, p. 57. Usinger, 1939, p. 34. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 70. Usinger, 1944, p. 28. Triatoma (Triatoma): Lima, 1940, p. 188. Conorhinus Laporte, 1833, p. 77. Amyot and Serville, 1843, p. 383. Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p. 69. StAI, 1859, p. 100; 1865, p. 120; 1868, p. 123; 1872, p. 108. Walker, 1873a, p. 81; 1873b, p. 12, StAI, 1874, p. 64. Meccus Stfil, 1859, p. 102; 1868, p. 123; 1872, p. 108. Walker, 1873a, p. 81; 1873b, p. 12. Champion, 1899, p. 206. Van Duzee, 1916, p. 29. Readio, 1927, p. 112. Eutriatoma Pinto, 1926c, p. 485; 1831, p. 86. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 858. Usinger, 1939, p. 34. Triatoma (Eutriatoma): Lima, 1940, p. 188. Neotriatoma Pinto, 1931, p. 120 (new synonymy). Triatoma (Neotriatoma): Lima, 1940, p. 198. Triatomaptera Neiva and Lent, 1940a, p. 265. Mepraia Mazza, Gajardo and Jorg, 1940, p. 3. Nesotriatoma Usinger, 1944, p. 38 (new synonymy). Triatomini. Small- to large-sized (9.5-39.5 mm). Body not conspicuously flattened. Color varied; head and thorax with or without setiferous granules, and with setae from very short and sparse to long. Head subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at or behind middle of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum; first rostral segment invariably much shorter than second; third without rostral organ. Anterior lobe of pronotum with or without discal and lateral tubercles. Humeral angles rounded or angular but not spined. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar process from subconical to subcylindrical. Legs with femora armed or unarmed; spongy fossulae of tibiae present or absent. Abdomen from narrow to wide, with lateral portions of urotergites exposed or completely covered by hemelytra. Dorsal and ventral connexival segments normally developed (except in Tspinolai, with dorsal connexival segments fused to urotergites and, in female, large membranous area separating ventral connexival plates from urosternites). Venter of abdomen rounded or flattened longitudinally along middle. Posterior process of pygophore pointed. Fifth instar nymph: As described for tribe; antenniferous tubercles situated at or behind middle of anteocular portion of head; fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first segment much shorter than second, third without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; abdomen dorsally with or without series of median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum stout or slender, if slender, then first segment less than half as long as second; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with or without long delicate sensory hairs.
Triatoma amicitiae@Triatoma amicitiae Lent Figures 34-36 Triatoma amicitiae Lent, 195ld, p. 427, figs. 1-3; Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Female (male not known). Length 15 mm; width of pronotum 4 mm, of abdomen 7 mm Overall color uniformly orange-brown, with only extreme apex of corium and entire membrane, dark. Integument granulose on head and thorax. Setae very short and sparse. Head strongly convex dorsally between eyes, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.45); postocular with sides slightly rounded, somewhat converging posteriorly. Clypeus widened on posterior half, elevated in lateral view. Genae slightly tapering distally, their apex rounded, extending to level of apex of clypeus. Eyes unusually small, in lateral view not quite attaining level of lower surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:4.2. Ocelli small. Antenniferous tubercles situated behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first with apex falling short of level of apex of clypeus, second segment only with very short setae. Second segment four times as long as first. Rostrum with short setae on all segments, slightly longer on apex of second and on third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second falling slightly short of level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.4:0.5. Anterior lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose-granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before hind margin of pronotum; humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles with short, triangular, anterolaterally directed projections. Scutellum with central depression limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum, stout, subconical, its apex slightly upward turned. Hemelytra attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish, lighter colored than rest of body, only its apex darkened. Membrane dark. Legs stout, with fore femur about four times as long as wide, and without denticles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae (probably present in male). Venter slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, its microsculpture consisting of meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Dorsal connexival segments with conspicuous rugosities along outer margin. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum unicolorous, not spotted.
Triatoma arthurneivai@Triatoma arthurneivai Lent and Martins Figures 37, 38 Triatoma arthurneivai Lent and Martins, 1940, p. 881, fig.1, pis. 26. Correa, Alves and Noda, 1965, p. 217, figs. 1-15. Length of male 22 mm, of female 19.5-21.0 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 7.5 mm, of female 8.0 mm Overall color black, in some specimens with delicate blue pruinescence; orange-red markings on connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head black, delicately granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0.6), and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region two and one-half to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3-0.4), postocular with sides rounded, almost angulate. Oypeus long and narrow, only very feebly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae rounded or wide-angled apically. Eyes in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.0-1.3. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment compressed, beset with numerous adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.0-6.0:3.0-3.2:2.0-2.3. Rostrum reddish brown, lighter than head capsule. Second and third rostral segments somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, very slender in side view. Rostrum appearing glabrous, only third segment with numerous distinctly perceptible but very short hairs. First segment not attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second reaching to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8-1.9:0.9-1.0. Neck dark, with a pair of very small yellow spots laterally. Pronotum entirely black, only very rarely humeral area tinged with orange. Anterior lobe not granulose, with obsolescent or without dorsal and invariably without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third or almost to hind border of sclerite. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections prominent, conical, not flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum with distinct median depression. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, with apex slightly upturned, rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Distal portion of process light colored in some specimens. Hemelytra extending to apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium black; clavus black on basal third or fourth, light grayish brown on remainder, this color extending to adjoining portion of corium. Membrane fumose, light brown, lighter than corium, veins distinctly darker than cells. Legs uniformly black, very slender. Fore femora 7-8 times as long as wide; femora of fore and mid pairs of legs with a pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, delicately striate transversally, sparsely beset with short yellowish hairs. Spiracles very close to or adjoining connexival sutures. Urosternites dark brown or black, spiracles surrounded each by small yellow area. Connexivum with orange-red subsemicircular spots in central portion of each segment and adjacent to outer margin, and black marks in shape of wide transverse bands on intersegmental sutures widened toward inner connexival suture; lightcolored areas longer than dark ones, at least along outer margin. Male genitalia with endosomal processes much over half as long as phallosoma , heavily sclerotized, their apices with close to 100 denticles .
Triatoma barberi@Triatoma barberi Usinger Figures 24N, 39, 40 Triatoma sp., Mazzotti, 1939b, p. 74, fig.2. Triatoma barberi Usinger, 1939, p. 44; 1944, p. 72, pl. 12, fig.C. Ryckman, 1962, pl. 9, fig.P. Length of males 16-18, of females 18.5-20.0 mm; width of pronotum of males 3.5-4.0 mm, of females 4.0-4.5 mm; of abdomen of males 5.5-6.5, of females 6.5-7.0 mm Color from piceous to black, with reddish markings on connexivum. Setae short and sparse. Head , granulose and slightly rugose, distinctly convex above, twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region slightly over twice as long as postocular (1:0.45), postocular with sides rounded, verrucose. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, strongly widened on posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate transverse impression at base of clypeus. Genae narrowly tapered apically, almost attaining apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head in side view with distinct depression at level of base of clypeus; ventrally not salient behind eyes. Eyes in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal but very close to level of under surface of head. Eyes small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.2-3.0. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, attaining only two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with short, adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.6-3.0:1.7-2:1.6-1.8. Rostrum with relatively short hairs, somewhat longer toward apex of second and uniformly Jong on third segment. First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments l:1.2-1.4:0.5-0.6. Pronotum entirely dark, trapezoidal, with sides delicately carinate, only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe slightly elevated, distinctly granulose on ridges, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose, submedian carinae falling short of hind margin. Humeri rounded, not elevated. Anterolateral angles salient but short, rounded apically. Scutellum rugose; central portion distinctly impressed, limited laterally by sharp carinae. Apical process of scutellum very short, onehalf as long as main body of scutellum, conical, apex deflected. Hemelytra falling short of apex of abdomen by 0.5-1.0 mm, in either sex; uniformly dark colored. Legs uniformly dark, short and stout; fore femora 4.5 times as long as wide, minutely granulose. Fore and median femora with two pairs of subapical denticles. Males with minute spongy fossulae on tibiae of first and second pairs of leg. Females with spongy fossulae on first pair only. Venter slightly but distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, but flattened portion not distinctly separated from convex one. Urosternites minutely striate transversally; hairs inconspicuous. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum from dark red to orange-red, segments with black markings of varied extension, from occupying entire anterior four-fifths of segment to somewhat reduced with two pointed posterior projections, the outer one shorter than the inner one , and to broken up into two dark spots, the outer one small, situated at anteroextemal angle of segment, the inner one large, elongate, adjacent to inner border of connexival segment Dark markings in no case forming continuous longitudinal band.
Triatoma bouvieri@Triatoma bouvieri Larrousse Figures 41, 42 Triatoma bouvieri Larrousse, 1924a, p. 67, fig.3. Lent, 1953b, p. 316. Panstrongylus bouvieri: Pinto, 1931, p. 106. Length of male 17.0-18.0 mm, of female 19.5-20.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.5 mm, of female 4.8 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.0-7.8 mm, of female 8.0 mm Overall color from yellowish to reddish brown, with dark brown or black markings on head, pronotum, corium, and connexivum . Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Setae very short and sparse. Head granulose and irregularly rugose above; its color dark reddish brown with 1 + I longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally. Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.65) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region twice or slightly more than twice as long as postocular (1:0.4-0.5); postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, rather abruptly widened on posterior half, conspicuously convex in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under surface but remote from upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.9-2.4. Distance from ocelli to hind border of eyes subequal to length of diameter of ocelli. First and second antennal segments dark brown to black; first segment very short, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae, shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.1-3.5:2.4-2.6:2.3-2.5. Rostrum with short, inconspicuous setae except on apex of second and on third segment, but not numerous and not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-0.5. Neck uniformly yellowish or reddish. Pronotum light reddish brown; darkbrown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four longitudinal dark stripes on posterior lobe, I+ l in area between submedian carinae and lateral margin of pronotum, and I+ l in space between carinae, adjacent to same. Outer stripes abbreviated in some specimens. Fore lobe granulose on elevated areas, with faint discal and without lateral tubercles. Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles shortly conical, rounded or tapered apically. Scutellum with variable color pattern, its basal portion dark brown or black, central depression and posterior process in most cases reddish. Sublateral carinae limiting central depression distinct. Posterior process of scutellum relatively short, only twice as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, sharply tapering from wide base to narrow apex. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen in males and in some females; in other females not extending beyond mjddle of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish brown, with irregular central spot of varied size, extending to costal margin of hemelytron or separated from margin by more or less wide light colored stripe connecting subbasal and subapical light spots, or the latter separated by extended central dark spot. Base and apex of corium dark. Legs reddish brown, stout; fore femur 4.0-4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with 3-4 denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen rounded below but faintly flattened longitudinally along middle, more perceptibly so in female. Surface microstructure of venter in shape of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles ; transverse striations not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or remote from same by distance not larger than their own diameter. Abdomen dark reddish brown. Connexivum light reddish brown. Connexival segments at center with dark brown or black roundish or square spot, larger dorsally than ventrally, in some specimens attaining lateral margin of segment, in others not extending to lateral margin. Membrane as dark as dark portions of corium.
Triatoma brasiliensis@Triatoma brasiliensis Neiva Figures 43-45 Triatoma brasiliensis Neiva, 1911d, p. 461; 1914, p 33. Pinto, 1925a, p. 53, figs. 11, 34-36. Lucena, 1958, p. 311; 1970, p. 81Conorhinus brasi\iensis: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Triatoma brasiliensis melanica Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 72. Triatoma brasiliensis macromelasoma Galviio, 1956, p. 456, fig.I. Length of male 22-25 mm, of female 23.0-25.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 4-5 mm, of female 4.5-5.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6-9 mm, of female 7.5-10.0 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, in some cases lighter brown dorsally; brownish yellow markings on neck, pronotum, legs, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument with sparse, short, yellowish or black setae. Head dark brown or black, in some cases tinged with light brown dorsally; rugose dorsally and laterally, slightly granulose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.50-0.55) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.95). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides slightly rounded. Clypeus distinctly but not abruptly widened behind middle. Genae tapering distally but their apex narrowly rounded, not pointed, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae widely rounded apically. Eyes in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.25. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at or slightly before middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment subcylindrical, beset with declivous setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.6-4.2:2.4-2.7:1.9-2.2. Rostrum thick, as dark as head capsule, with mediumsized hairs on first and on underside of second segment, and with long and very numerous hairs on upper surface of second and on entire third segment; hairs especially dense dorsally at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment extending to level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second to level of apex of middle of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-1.9:0.9-1.05. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum very sparsely granulose, from dark brown to black, in some cases entirely dark, more frequently with some or all of the following yellow: collar, anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of fore lobe, submedian carinae along their entire length, a pair of large, elongate, subrectangular markings on hind lobe laterad of carinae, and narrower markings parallel to lateral margins. Anterior lobe with very low discal tubercles, difficult to perceive when concolorous with overall surface of fore lobe; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly angular. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process with yellow point in light-colored specimens. Scutellum coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression. Posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, but slightly compressed laterally, apex slightly elevated, rounded. Hemelytra extending to variable levels from base to apex of seventh urotergite. Corium light yellow, with dark areas of variable extension, mainly in lateral area limited by Sc, R + M and free portion of R, and on central area adjoining bases of membranal cells; areas mentioned joined in some specimens. Clavus entirely dark. Membrane fumose, from light yellow to light yellowish brown, as light as or slightly darker than light-colored areas of corium. Veins of membrane black; lumen of cells either uniformly light or, in most specimens, with more or less extensive, irregularly shaped sooty spot extending over central portion of cells. Legs dark, with light markings on trochantera, on middle and rarely also at base of femora, as well as apically on tibiae. Extension of light areas variable, from extensive to very reduced and completely absent in melanic forms. Legs slender, fore femora from six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora salient below subapically or with one or two weak denticles. Male with spongy fossulae on tibiae of fore and mid legs; absent in females. Abdomen slightly flattened below in both sexes, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Abdomen of female very wide, lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Venter dark brown or black, in some specimens suffused with light brown; spiracles enclosed in minute yellow area. Connexival segments on disc with yellow rectangular or subtriangular yellow spot; wide black spot enclosing intersegmental sutures; yellow and black spots of about identical size, occupying entire width of segments.
Triatoma breyeri@Triatoma breyeri Del Ponte Figures 46-48 Triatoma breyeri Del Ponte, 1929, p. 3, fig.4; 1930, p. 863, pl. 41. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951,p. 118, figs. 232-239. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 63, pl. 2, fig.2. Mariluis, 1974, p. 7, figs. 16-19. Triatoma breyeri dallasi Del Ponte, 1930, p. 863. Length of male 18.0-18.5 mm, of female 20-22 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0 mm, of female 4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5 mm; of female 6.0-7.0 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with connexivum partly or entirely pale yellow. Pilosity of body inconspicuous. Head dark, transversally rugose dorsally, weakly granulose. Head approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.50- 0.55), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.90). Anteocular region two and onehalf to three times as Jong as postocular (l:0.35-0.40); postocular with sides feebly rounded. Clypeus narrow, distinctly but not abruptly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, blunt apically. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis e 1:1.45-1.75. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind center of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with numerous semierect ciliate hairs twice as long as diameter of segment, and less numerous regularly spaced elongate bristles from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment ; similar hairs and bristles on third and fourth segments. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.2-3.5:3.2-3.5:1.8-2.0. Rostrum light brown, not so dark as head. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending beyond level of hind border of head. Rostral segments slender, the second compressed dorsoventrally. First and second segments with hairs approximately as long as diameter of segments, but longer than diameter of segment on third; hairs not dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5-1.8:0.5-0.6. Neck dark, with I+ I distinct yellowish spots laterally. Pronotum uniformly dark. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not perceptibly granulose, with 1 + 1 small but distinct discal and 1 + I small lateral tubercles, the latter in some specimens obsolete. Posterior lobe wrinkled-rugose. Submedian carinae low, not extending beyond middle of hind lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded, subangular. Scutellum heavily rugose, central depression ill defined, from linear to imperceptible. Posterior process of scutellum horizontal, about as long as main body of scutellum, slender, narrowly tapering or pointed apically . Mesostemum limited posteriorly by prominent transverse straight ridge . Metastemum carinate longitudinally along middle . Hemelytra -closely approaching or attaining apex of abdomen; corium uniformly black; membrane fumose, greyish brown. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femora about six times as long as wide. Femora inermous, with short adpressed setae and ventrally with long bristles, most numerous on fore legs. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, carinate longitudinally along middle in male, almost imperceptibly flattened in female. Venter minutely striate transversally, more coarsely so on seventh urostemite of female. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum pale yellow, entirely so ventrally, but dorsally with disc of each connexival segment spotted with dark, in most specimens spot restricted to area adjacent to connexival suture, in others extending to a larger or smaller degree to outer area of connexivum.
Triatoma carrioni@Triatoma carrioni Larrousse Figures 49, 50 Triatoma carrioni Larrousse, 1926, p. 136, figs. 1, 3, 4. Campos, 1928, p. 61. Le6n, 1953, p. 2, fig.C. Herrer, 1955, p. 70, fig.2. Eutriatoma carrioni: Pinto, 1931, p. 87. Length of male 19.5-21.0 mm, of female 20.0-22.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 4.5-5.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.0-7.5 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with orange-red or yellowish markings on thorax, hemelytra and connexivum. Setae slender, very short, golden colored, inconspicuous. Head black, dorsally along middle with elevated longitudinal granulose ridge. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.4-0.5) and distinctly longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded, converging towards behind. Clypeus narrow, elongate, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, in some cases pointed, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. In side view, eyes reaching level of lower but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.8-0.9 in male, 1:1.0-1.6 in female, viz., eyes wider than synthlipsis in male but as wide as, or narrower than, synthlipsis in female . Antenniferous tubercles inserted distinctly behind middle of anteocular area. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first very short, not extending beyond basal two-thirds of genae. Second antennal segment with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.3:2.8-3.2:2.3-2.8. Rostrum dark brown or black, with short inconspicuous setae. First rostral segment only reaching to level of center of genae; second segment very long and slender, attaining level of ocelli, viz., not reaching to level of posterior border of head. Third rostral segment longer than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.0-3.5:1.2-1.3. Pronotum dark brown or black. Anterior lobe margined laterally with red, with discal and 1 + 1 posterosublateral tubercles; lateral tubercles absent but lateral borders of anterior lobe angularly salient behind. Posterior lobe black, with lateral margin bordered with orange-red; additionally, one central and 1 + 1 subl ateral longitudinal markings ex - tending from transversal sulcus to pronotum, markings medially constricted or even interrupted. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, wrinkled, not granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles and in some cases also center of collar, red. Anterolateral projections subconical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrall y. Scutellum black, heavily rugose, its posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, black at base, red distally, its apex spoon-shaped . Pleura uniformly dark brown or black. Hemelytra reaching apex of abdomen, black. Corium with one subbasal and one subapical very irregularly shaped transverse yellowish marking; apex of corium also yellowish. Some portions of veins forming membranal cells light colored and bordered with light, extension of light areas variable. Inner membranal cell with light-colored spot subbasally. Legs black, stout; fore femur 5.5-6.0 times as long as wide. Femora of first and second pairs of legs with three, hind femora with two, unusually large denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen minutely striate transversally below. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Pilosity of venter inconspicuous, adpressed. Venter of male convex, with faint trace of median longitudinal keel. Venter of female faintly but perceptibly flattened longitudinally along middle from second to sixth urosternite; seventh urosternite keeled longitudinally along middle. Venter dark brown or black. Connexivum black, with narrow transversal reddish spots straddling intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma cavernicola@Triatoma cavernicola Else and Cheong Figures 51, 52 Triatoma cavernicola Else and Cheong in Else, Cheong, Mahadevan and Zarate, 1977, p. 367, 2 figs. Length of males 18.5-20.5 mm, of females 20.5-21.0 mm; width of pronotum of males 6.5-7.5 mm, of females 4.5 mm; width of abdomen of males 6.5-7.5 mm, of females 7.0-7.5 mm General shape comparatively slender. Overall color pale stramineous, with dark brown or black markings mainly on head, pronotum, scutellum, apex of corium, connexivum, and on pleura. Body integument rugose. Setae very short and sparse. Head stramineous, with sides partly black, its surface slightly rugose and heavily granulose, approximately twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular (l:0.33); postocular region with sides rounded, heavily granulose. Clypeus widened at base, but not abruptly so. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed. Under surface of head with distinct protuberance behind eyes. In lateral view eyes attaining level of under surface of head and remote from level of upper surface. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head, without apicolateral projection. First antennal segment light colored, falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment entirely dark. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.5:3.1:2.5. Rostrum with sparse short hairs except those on third segment which are more numerous and as long as diameter of segment. First rostral segment attaining level of insertion of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5:0.5. Neck of general body color, with 1 + 1 dark lateral spots, being part of discontinuous lateral dark area extending from sides of head to first visible urostemite. Pronotum with anterior lobe slightly granulose, almost flat, without discal or lateral tu bercles; its color uniformly light. Posterior lobe delicately rugose and granulose, with submedian carinae delimitating a central and l + l lateral depressed areas, the latter on their anterior half with l + l elongate dark markings; l + l similar but shorter markings, not distinct in all specimens, close to inner border of carinae, at sides of central depression. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles of pronotum subtriangular, anterolaterally directed. Scutellum granulose and coarsely rugose transversally, dark laterally and light colored at center. Posterior process of scutellum subconical, shorter than main body of scutellum, horizontal , rounded apically; its color light yellow. Sterna and pleura , except acetabula, dark ; mesosternum lighter. Legs uniformly yellow, relatively slender; fore femur 6-7 times as long as wide, with one or two weakly developed or without denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Hemelytra attaining or slightly surpassing middle of seventh urotergite. Corium almost entirely pale yellow, with one elongate black spot subapically and, in some specimens, with a small and faint spot at center. Membrane light smoky brown. Venter flattened longitudinally along center, more pronouncedly so in female. Abdomen light colored ventrally, with external genitalia darkened somewhat irregularly in both sexes (artifact?). Integument of venter with extremely small irregular wrinkles, giving it an overall minutely crinkled aspect. Connexivum delicately creased longitudinally along outer margin. Color of connexivum pale yellow, disk of each segment with dark central spot adjacent to inner connexival suture but not attaining outer border; these spots very distinct dorsally from first to fifth visible segment, absent on last segment; corresponding spots of ventral surface of connexivum narrower.
Triatoma circummaculata@Triatoma circummaculata (Stal) Figures 53-55 Conorhinus circummaculatus Stal, 1859, p. 114. Triatoma circummaculata: Neiva, 1913, p. 196; 1914a, p. 35. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 868, pl. 44, fig.1. Triatoma (Neotriatoma) circummaculata: Lima, 1940, p. 198. Mazza, Talice and Jorg, 1942, p. 8, figs. 1-11, pl. 1. Neotriatoma circummaculata: Pinto, 1931, p. 121, figs. 32, 61. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1961, p. 128, figs. 241, 253. Di Primio, 1962, p. 16, fig.2. Length of male 15-16 mm, of female 15-17 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 3.0-3.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5-6 mm, of female 6 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with bright red markings on pronotum, corium, and connexivum; extension of markings variable . Pilosity very short, inconspicuous, insects appearing glabrous. Head of general body color, delicately rugose and granulose, with setae short and inapparent. Head from twice to slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.5), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7-0.8). Anteocular region about two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.35-0.4), postocular with sides distinctly convex, angularly projecting. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae large, rounded distally, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under surface but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.35-1.75. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, not projecting beyond middle of genae. Second antennal segment comparatively thick, beset with longitudinal rows of stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3- 4.0:3.0-4.2;2.0-2.7. Rostrum in most specimens light brown, contrasting with dark head. Setae of rostrum very short and sparse except scattered longer ones on apical portion of third segment. First segment very short, not attaining basal third of distance between apex of antenniferous tubercles and apex of head; second segment extending to level of anterior border of eyes or slightly beyond, third as long as second, reaching to or even beyond base of neck. First segment subcylindrical, second from subcylindrical to slightly flattened, third very strongly flattened dorsoventrally, very thin in lateral view, and in some specimens distinctly curved. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2:2. Neck dark brown, with a pair of lateral reddish spots. Pronotum with anterior lobe from dark brown to black, posterior lobe pigmented as anterior lobe, or from partially to entirely bright red . Fore lobe delicately granulose on ridges, and without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe feebly rugose. Submedian carinae penetrating only to anterior fourth or fifth of posterior lobe, obsolete beyond. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections laterally directed, very short, subconical, blunt apically. Scutellum of general dark color, rarely apex of posterior process lighter colored; central depression of scutellum distinctly delimited by carinae. Posterior process short, only half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, tapering to rounded and in some cases slightly upwardly bent point. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of urotergite VII. Corium dark brown or blackish, red at base and with smaller reddish spot subapically; these spots in some individuals more extended and occasionally confluent. Membrane brown, fumose, almost as dark as dark portions of corium. Legs uniformly dark, comparatively short; fore femur 5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter rounded below in both sexes, rarely very slighjly flattened in female. Integument of venter delicately striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously pilose. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Venter dark brown, connexivum bright red, with transverse black stripe straddling intersegmental suture ; transverse markings very narrow, only about one-fifth as long as red areas. Light color of connexivum invading urostemites, especially at spiracles.
Triatoma costalimai@Triatoma costalimai Verano and Galvao Figures 56-58 Triatoma costalimai Verano and Galviio, 1959, p. 199, 4 figs. Length of male 26 mm, of female 25.5-26.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.0-5.5 mm, of abdomen of male and female 7.5-8.0 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with reddish markings on neck, corium and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse. Head black, feebly rugose and granulose-punctate, approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.75). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides almost straight, distinctly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened behind middle. Genae pointed, projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.6-2.0. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.6-6.4:4.4:3.2. Rostrum as dark as head or somewhat lighter. First rostral segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of hind margin of eyes. Rostrum stout; first segment and most of under surface of second with short hairs; upper surface of second segment, especially toward apex, and entire third segment with numerous very dense setae longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.6-2.7:1. Neck dark, with pair of lateral reddish spots. Pronotum entirely dark brown or black. Fore lobe feebly sculptured and weakly granulose, with l + l barely perceptible discal tubercles; lateral tubercles absent. Hind lobe heavily rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to posterior margin of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded. Scutellum heavily rugose, with well-developed central depression. Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical or somewhat compressed laterally, its apex slightly elevated, narrowly rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Hemelytra attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium and clavus black, apex of corium bordered with reddish, and conspicuous orange-red marking subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell. Membrane dark gray, faintly tinged with reddish; veins of membrane black. Legs uniformly dark, slender. Fore femora eight times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in female. Venter convex in both sexes, highly polished, appearing glabrous, delicately striate transversally. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown; spiracles yellowish. Connexivum extensively dark brown; connexival segments each with orange-red marking of variable width extending along outer connexival border; dark portion of connexivum advancing towards external border along intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma deanei@Triatoma deanei Galvao, Souza and Lima Figures 59, 60Triatoma deanei Galviio, Souza and Lima, 1967, p401, ill. Galviio and Fuentes, 1971, p. 141, figs. l, 2, 4. Length of male (holotype) 25 mm, width of pronotum 6 mm, of abdomen 8.5 mm Overall color dark brown. Pilosity short and sparse. Head dark brown, delicately rugose and granulose, slightly less than twice as long as wide (1:0.55), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides almost straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, abruptly widened on posterior half. In lateral view eyes attaining level of under surface and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Antenniferous tubercles located at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. Rostrum reddish brown, relatively stout; first segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. First and under surface of second segment of rostrum with short hairs, upper surface of second and entire third segments with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment, very numerous on apex of second and entire third segments. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.25:1. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellowish spots. Pronotum black. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not granulose, with distinct although small discal and lateral tubercles, somewhat lighter colored than rest of surface of pronotum. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical. Scutellum uniformly dark, with well-developed median impression. Posterior process shortly subconical, wide at base, narrowly tapering apically, horizontal. Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus yellowish, dark along outer margin. Corium light yellowish brown with veins mostly dark, central portion of corium also darkened, dark area extending apicad and proximad along cell formed by Sc, R+M and R. Membrane light yellowish brown, with veins narrowly dark. Legs dark brown, trochantera and base of femora contrastingly yellow . Fore and mid femora with pair of very small subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid legs. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, with sparse short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Lateral portions of urotergites not exposed. Urosternites dark brown, except for minute yellow spots enclosing spiracles. Connexivum pale yellow, with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment, and darkened along connexival suture dorsally but not ventrally; some of the intersegmental sutures of connexivum slightly and narrowly darkened, markings similar to musical notes.
Triatoma delpontei@Triatoma delpontei Romafia and Abalos Figures 61, 62 Triatoma delpontei Romana and Abalos, 1947, p. 80, figs. 1-7, I pl. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 69, figs. 43, 47, 60, 102, 104-118. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 69, pl. I, fig.3. Length of male 24-26 mm, of female 25-27 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 6.5-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5-9.5 mm, of female 8.5-10.0 mm Robust, heavily sclerotized species . Overall color dark reddish brown or black, matte or slightly polished, with yellow markings on neck and connexivum, and with elytra also partly yellowish. Pilosity pale golden colored, adpressed, distinct but not as abundant as in T platensis, the most closely related species. Head dark reddish brown or black, pilose, sparsely granulose. Head comparatively stout in dorsal and lateral view, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular, the latter with sides rounded. Oypeus abruptly and almost circularly widened behind middle. Genae pointed, heavily sclerotized distally, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Apex of jugae angular , also heavily sclerotized. Head dorsally with distinct transverse impression at base of clypeus and of jugae. Eyes in lateral view attaining or falling slightly short of level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.2. Ocelli inserted on very conspicuous protuberances. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of apex of clypeus. Second and third antennal segments slightly compressed; second with adpressed setae, much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments I:3.3-3.5:2.0-2.3:1.5. Rostrum as dark as head. Setae of rostrum very short on first and most of under surface of second segment; distal portion of under surface and entire upper surface of second as well as entire third segment dorsally, ventrally and laterally with very dense setae much longer than diameter of segment, longest at base of third segment, progressively decreasing in length toward apex of rostrum. First segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not quite reaching level of apex of antenniferous tubercles. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2:1.0-1.1. Neck dark, with I+ I lateral yellow spots. Pronotum of general body color, from matte to slightly polished, covered with adpressed setae less numerous than in T platensis. Anterior lobe slightly granulose, with I+ I pointed vertical discal and 1 + I smaller, apically rounded lateral tubercles, as well as with I+ I obsolescent posterosublateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely and irregularly wrinkled, moderately setose. Submedian carinae evanescent just before hind border of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded; humeral area elevated. Anterolateral angles of pronotum small but distinct, conical, laterally directed. Scutellum heavily rugose; central depression with scattered setae, remainder more densely setose. Base of scutellum with submedian projections obsolescent. Posterior process of scutellum two-fifths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, subcylindrical on apical portion, rounded distally. Hemelytra attammg apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes. Clavus and corium distinctly although sparingly setose. Hemelytra lighter colored than body generally, yellowish, especially on corium, irregularly mottled with dark, dark pigment coalescing into large, irregularly delimited spot centered in apical half of inner membranal cell but extending to outer cell. Legs uniformly dark brown or blackish, stout, fore femur about five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of obsolescent subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in female. Setae of legs very numerous, visible to the unaided eye, many of those on tibiae longer than diameter of article . Venter convex, in female slightly flattened longitudinally along middle. Integument of venter coarsely although shallowly striate transversally; setae adpressed, numerous, but less so than in T platensis. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture, included in small, round yellow spot. Color of venter dark brown or blackish, with small medially constricted transverse yellow spot close but not adjacent to hind border of each segment.
Triatoma dimidiata@Triatoma dimidiata (Latreille) Figures 19A; 278; 63, 64 Reduvius dimidiatus Latreille in Humboldt and Bonpland, 1811, p. 223, pl. 15, fig.11. Conorhinus dimidiatus: StAl, 1859, p. llO, pl. 6, fig.2. Conorrhinus dimidiatus: Champion, 1899, p. 206, pl. 12, figs. 20, 21. Triatoma dimidiata: Neiva, 1914a, p. 36. Mazza, 1944, p. 62, pl. 1, fig.2. Usinger, 1944, p. 53, pl. 9, fig.D. Blanco Salgado, 1943, p. 38, figs. Conorhinus maculipennis Sti\\l, 1859, p. 111. Triatoma maculipennis: Pinto, 1931, p. 70, fig.12. Conorhinus dimidiatus var. maculipennis: Champion, 1899, p. 207, pl. 12, fig.21. Hoffmann, 1928, p. 12, figs. 1-6. Conorhinus dimidiata maculipennis: Neiva, 1914, p. 36. Usinger, 1944, p. 54, pl. 9, fig.F. Triatoma capitata Usinger, 1941, p. 52. Triatoma dimidiata capitata: Usinger, 1944, p. 54, pl. 9, fig.E. Length of male 24.5-32.0 mm, of female 24.5-35.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-7.0 mm, of female 6.5-9.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 9.0-12.0 mm, of female 9.5-13.0 mm Overall color from piceous to black, with connexivum and corium from pale yellow to orange yellow. Pilosity short, inconspicuous. Head rugose dorsally, from slightly less to slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.6) and about as long as pronotum (1:0.9-1.1). Anteocular region from 2.5 to 3.0 times as long as postocular (1:0.3-0.4), postocular with sides rounded, converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.0-2.0, varying considerably even among sympatric specimens. Ocelli large, as long as distance from their anterior border to posterior margin of eye. Antenniferous tubercles subcylindrical, comparatively elongate, situated slightly posterior of middle of anteocular region of head; first antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with many strong setae slightly longer than diameter of segment, as well as with numerous short, delicate erect hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.2-3.8:2.5:2.2. Rostrum slender; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3:0.7. Most setae of rostrum short, distinctly longer but not very numerous on apex of second and on third segment. Neck dark, with l + l lateral spots yellowish. Pronotum uniformly piceous or black. Anterior lobe with I+ l discal and I+ l smaller lateral tubercles, but not pointed and not elevated. Anterolateral angles anterolaterally directed, short, subconical, in some specimens yellowish apically. Scutellum shallowly rugose, central area not depressed; apical process about as long as body of scutellum, subcylindrical, slightly downwardly bent at apex. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen but leaving female genital segments exposed, and in some cases surpassing apex of abdomen in male. Basal portion of clavus black, apical half pale. Corium from pale to orange-yellow, its extreme apex black, and with a dark central spot which varies from barely perceptible to very extensive, forming an almost complete transversal band across hemelytron. Membrane smoky brown, distinctly darker than corium, in many specimens darkest on basal area of membranal cells. Legs uniformly dark. Fore and mid femora with l + l small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen convex below, minutely striate transversally, shortly pilose. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture . Color of venter from piceous to black except area of variable extension adjacent to connexival suture . Connexival segments piceous or black on anterior half or third across their entire width, pale or orange-yellow on posterior portion.
Triatoma dispar@Triatoma dispar Lent Figures 65, 66 Conorrhinus venosus Champion, 1899, p. 209, pl. 12, fig.23 (nee Stal). Triatoma venosa: Usinger, 1944, p. 61, pl. 9, fig.I (nee Stal). Triatoma dispar Lent, 1950, p. 437, figs. 3, 4Le6n, 1953, p. 3, fig.D. Galindo and Fairchild, 1962, p. 229. Vargas and Montero, 1971, p. 454, figs. 1-4. Length of male 21.0-22.5 mm, of female 23-24 mm, width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5 mm, of female 7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 8.0-8.5 mm Overall color dark reddish brown, with black markings on head, fore lobe of pronotum and connexivum, and with red or yellowish red markings on hind lobe of pronotum, scutellum, connexivum, and hemelytra. Pilosity conspicuous, decumbent, golden colored. Head rugose and granulose, reddish brown, with 1 + 1 glabrous black stripes extending dorsally from level of base of clypeus to ocellar tubercles, enclosing elevated median granulose band. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.5), and longer than pronotum (1:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.3), postocular with sides only very feebly convex, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus extremely narrow, only very slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrow, rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.9-1.0. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region of head. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with decumbent setae of two sizes, the larger ones slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.0-2.4:2.2:1.8. Rostrum reddish brown, with short, inconspicuous setae. First rostral segment short, not extending beyond middle of genae, second very long and slender, reaching to level of posterior border of head; third longer than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.4-3.8:1.3-1.4. Neck uniformly reddish brown. Pronotum of general reddish brown color. Anterior lobe with elevated areas reddish brown, smooth areas black. Posterior lobe dark brown, with submedian carinae, one median and 1 + 1 sublateral elongate red markings extending from transverse furrow to posterior margin of pronotum, red. Lateral and posterior margins of pronotum also red, except area occupied by submedian dark markings which extend to hind border. Anterolateral angles extensively reddish. Anterior lobe with 1+ 1 well-developed discal tubercles, and 1+ 1 smaller posterosublateral ones; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe heavily rugose and wrinkled. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded, with humeri distinctly elevated. Anterolateral projections subtriangular, salient, elongate, somewhat compressed laterally. Scutellum reddish brown, in some cases black at middle of central depression, anteriorly with convolute wrinkles. Posterior process of scutellum light red or yellowish, stout, not over half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, roundedtruncate apically. Pleura reddish brown, acetabula lighter. Hemelytra covering entire length of abdomen, including genitalia of female. Color of hemelytra dark brown; most veins yellowish, those of membrane dark but bordered with yellow. Corium with short accessory veinlike elements, their color also yellow. Clavus yellow on basal third, blackish on apical twothirds. Area of corium adjacent to apical portion of clavus deeply black, similar black areas on basal portions of membranal cells, very conspicuously so on base of outer membranal cell. Lumen of membranal cells and of adjacent areas of membrane variegated with pale yellowish. Legs dark reddish brown, relatively slender, with fore femur seven times as long as wide. Femora nodulose, nodules light red; pilosity distinct. Fore and mid femora subapically with four or five denticles, hind femora with two. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen rounded or very slightly flattened below, minutely striate transversally. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Pilosity of venter distinct, decumbent, or adpressed. Venter from reddish brown to dark brown; spiracles yellowish. Connexivum black, each segment with two orangeyellow marks: one, incomplete, on anterior third of disc of segment, adjacent to outer but not attaining inner border of segment, the other large spot extending over entire width of segment, situated on its basal third, adjoining intersegmental suture which is also light colored; dark markings (in some specimens) much reduced, as shown in figure 66D.
Triatoma eratyrusiformis@Triatoma eratyrusiformis Del Ponte Figures 67-69 Triatoma eratyrusiforme Del Ponte, 1929, p. 5, fig.I; 1930, p. 871, fig.5, pl. 45. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. Ill, figs. 38, 51, 56, 210-230. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 66, fig.27. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 31, figs. 17, 18. Mariluis, 1974, p. 7, figs. 1-10. Triatoma ninoi Carcavallo, Martinez, Prosen and Cichero, 1964, p. 152, figs. I-7 (new synonymy). Triatoma ninioi Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 67, pl. 2, fig.3. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 39, fig.22. Mariluis, 1974, figs. 11-15. Eratyrus eratyrusiforme: Pinto, 1931, p. 134. Mazza and Jorg, 1937, p. 44, figs. 9-13. Length of male 18.5-21.0 mm, of female 21-24 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5 mm, of female 5-6 mm; width of abdomen of male 6-7 mm, of female 7.0-7.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with connexivum and portions of adjacent urostemites orange yellow or rarely pale yellow colored. Head and thorax from highly polished to rarely dull. Body hairs short except long hairs on appendages . Head very dark, transversally rugose dorsally and irregularly so laterally, very weakly granulose; less than twice as long as wide (l:0.6-0.7) and longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3-0.35); postocular with sides faintly convex, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened at apex and gradually so on posterior half. Genae blunt apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, wideangled apically. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.4-1.9. Ocelli very large, their length equal to their distance from eye. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment from almost attaining to very slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment as in spinolai , viz., with numerous semierect ciliate hairs about twice as long as diameter of segment and less numerous setae from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment; similar hairs and setae on third and fourth segments. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-4.0:2.6-3.0:1.5-1.8. Rostrum reddish brown, lighter than head capsule. Rostral segments slender, compressed dorsoventrally; first and second segments with hairs approximately as long as diameter of segments, but much longer than diameter of segments on apex of second dorsally and on entire third segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1.8:0.5-0.6. Neck somewhat lighter than head capsule, with 1 + 1 small distinct yellow spots laterally. Pronotum uniformly dark, its surface in most cases highly polished, rarely only slightly polished or dull. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, with 1 + 1 low but invariably distinct discal tubercles; lateral tubercles small, variable, from perceptible to absent. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose and wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third of hind lobe. Humeri angular, from slightly projecting to conspicuously flaring and explanate; invariably pointed. Anterolateral projections small, from blunt to narrowly conical. Scutellum with surface heavily rugose, its median depression ill defined, from narrowly linear to absent. Posterior scutellar process half as long as main body of scutellum, very narrowly conical, sharply tapered distally, its apex in most specimens obliquely elevated. Mesosternum limited posteriorly by prominent straight transverse carina. Metasternum longitudinally carinate along middle and behind . Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium dark brown or black; membrane fumose, somewhat lighter brown. Legs uniformly dark brown, slender. Fore femur 6.5-8.5 times as long as wide. Femora inermous. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossula, absent in female. Femora of fore legs and frequently but not invariably also those of mid and hind legs with scattered but distinct long setae; similar but very numerous setae on all tibiae. Venter convex, in female flattened longitudinally along middle but not sharply so. Venter minutely striate transversally, and with fine semierect setae on posterior segments. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Connexivum orange or rarely pale yellow, with areas of lighter color slightly advancing onto urosternites along intersegmental sutures. Disc of connexival segments with large dark spot occupying entire width of connexivum; light areas of connexivum straddling intersegmental sutures, varying from smaller to larger than dark portions.
Triatoma flavida@Triatoma flavida Neiva Figures 70, 71 Rhodosisu probixus: Valdes, 1910, p. 435 (sic; nee Stl). Rhoduris prolixus: Valdes, 1914, p. IOI (sic; nee Stl). Rhodnius prolixus: Hoffman, 1922, p. 263 (nee StI). Triatoma flavida Neiva, 1911c, p. 441. Hoffmann, 1923, p. 299, figs. 1-2. Autuori, 1932, p. 271, figs. 1-6 Conorhinus flavida: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Meccus jlavidus: Fracker and Bruner, 1924, p. 165. Eutriatoma flavida: Pinto, 1931, p. 88, fig.33 Bruner and Barber, 1937, p. 183 Triatoma (Eutriatoma) flavida: Lima, 1940, p. 198. Nesotriatomaflavida: Usinger, 1944, p. 39; 1946, p 20. Maldonado and Farr, 1962, p. 190, figs. 19, 20. Alayo, 1967, p. 28, pl. 6, fig.2Nesotriatoma bruneri Usinger, 1944, p. 39, pl. 8, fig.E. Length of male 21-28 mm, of female 24-30 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5-7 mm, of abdomen of male and female 7-9 mm Overall color light yellowish brown, with small dark brown spots; under surface dark. Integument rugose and faintly granulose in some areas. Setae very short, scalelike , sparse. Head dorsally strongly rugose and faintly granulose, light yellowish brown, with l + 1 longitudinal dark brown or black stripes extending from level of antenniferous tubercles to neck. Head laterally and ventrally dark brown, rugose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.5), and slightly longer than or as long as pronotum (l:0.9-1.0). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.33-0.38), postocular with sides subparallel, very slightly converging behind. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened behind middle, and very narrow again on posterior third. Genae attaining level of apex of clypeus, narrowly tapering apically but not pointed. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2 in small specimens, 1:1.7 in large males and 1:1.5 in large females. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments from yellowish brown to dark brown; first segment falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.7-3.1:1.9-2.4:1.5. Rostrum slender, with short inconspicuous setae except scattered long hairs on distal segment. First rostral segment not attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck; third shorter than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.4-2.6:0.7-0.8. Neck dark brown, with l + l lateral yellow spots. Pronotum of general body color; smooth area of fore lobe black, impressions of posterior lobe dark brown. Posterior lobe margined with dark along declivous hind border. Anterior lobe with discal and lateral tubercles. Tubercles of varying size, the discal ones from rounded to strong subconical; development of tubercles not correlated with overall size of specimens. Hind lobe with sides strongly flaring, heavily and irregularly rugose, not granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of lobe, interrupted by transverse rugosities. Humeral angles entirely yellowish, angular, explanate. Anterolateral angles yellowish, elongate conical with narrowly rounded apex. Scutellum dark, elevated portion yellowish, coarsely and irregularly rugose, anteriorly with l + l forwardly inclined projections of variable size, overlapping declivous posterior margin of pronotum . Carinae limiting central depression of scutellum divided by transverse rugosities into a series of tubercles. Posterior process of scutellum yellowish, horizontal, subcylindrical, swollen apically, rounded at tip. Hemelytra slightly variable in length, reaching to seventh urotergite, in some cases not extending beyond its basal third, in others covering urotergite completely. Hemelytra of general color, extensively mottled with irregularly shaped dark dots of variable size. Dots most numerous and densest at base of membranal cells, otherwise membrane not or only very slightly darker than corium. Legs dark reddish brown, relatively slender; fore femur from six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora ventrally on apical half with from eight to ten very small setiferous denticles, some arranged in pairs, others single; subapical denticles the largest. Tibiae of first and second pairs of legs of males with spongy fossulae; females with spongy fossulae only on fore tibiae, or absent. Abdomen with venter from convex to, in most cases, slightly but distinctly flattened, in both sexes. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of relatively coarse transverse striation. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture, their distance from suture equal to at least diameter of spiracles. Pilosity of venter very short, sparse, adpressed, scalelike . Venter dark reddish brown, spiracles enclosed in small yellow area. Connexivum light yellowish brown; in wellpreserved specimens each segment with two dark spots: a large anterior one adjacent to anterior margin of segment, irregularly shaped posteriorly, extending across entire width of segment although darkest along outer margin, and one very small dot, obsolescent in some specimens, adjacent to posterior border of segment, remote from lateral margin.
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@Triatoma gerstaeckeri (Stal) Figures 72, 73 Conorhinus gerstaeckeri Stal, 1859, p. Ill. Triatoma gerstaeckeri: Neiva, 1914, p. 40. Van Duzee, 1916, p. 248. Pinto, 1931, p. 65, fig.13. Packchanian, 1939, p. 1548, pis. 1-3. Usinger, 1944, p. 56, pl. I, fig.G, pl. 4, pl. 9, fig.G. Eads, 1957, p. 27. Length of male 23-26 mm, of female 24.0-28.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-6.5 mm, of female 5.5-7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5-9.5 mm , of female 9.5-11.0 mm Color from dark brown to black, with yellow or orange-yellow markings on neck, corium, and connexivum. Setae short and very sparse, inconspicuous. Head slightly rugose above along midline, otherwise smooth, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and of varied length as compared to pronotum (l:0.9-1.1). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus very narrow, its posterior portion widening gradually. Genae tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view approaching level of upper and attaining or slightly surpassing level of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.9. Ocelli large, their distance from eyes equal to their diameter. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with strong decumbent setae at least as long as diameter of segment, as well as with numerous short, delicate erect hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-4.0:2.3-3.0:2.1-2.5. Rostrum with very short and sparse setae, longest and most numerous on third segment. First segment attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of base of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5-1.6:0.45-0.5. Neck black, laterally with 1 + 1 conspicuous yellow spots. Pronotum of general body color, distinctly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe slightly elevated, smooth, ridges not prominent. Discal and lateral tubercles present. Posterior lobe heavily rugose; submedian carinae not attaining posterior border. Lateral margins carinate , slightly reflexed. Humeri faintly angulate. Anterolateral angles obliquely forward directed, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Scutellum with depressed portion shallowly rugose, limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally; downward bent at apex. Hemelytra in most specimens attaining apex of abdomen, in some individuals, mainly females, falling short of apex by 0.5 to 1.0 mm Overall color of hemelytra from dark brown to black, somewhat lighter on and adjacent to apex of clavus. Clavus black basally, smoky brown apically. Base of corium strikingly light yellow or orange-yellow, best observed on deflexed portion of base of hemelytron; a narrow line along basal half of margin of corium also yellow; a small yellowish subapical spot in many cases present. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora eight to nine times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with 1 + 1 small denti cles. Fore and mid tibiae of males with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Abdomen rounded below, with minute transverse wrinkles. Hairs of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from latter by about twice their diameter. Abdomen from dark brown to black. Connexival segments with transverse yellow or orange-yellow markings, occupying posterior third or fourth of each segment adjacent to intersegmental sutures; yellow spots projecting narrowly onto urosternites. Spiracles light colored.
Triatoma guasayana@Triatoma guasayana Wygodzinsky and Abalos Figures 74-76 Triatoma guasayana Wygodzinsky and Abalos, 1949, p. 2; 1950, p. 54, figs. I, 4-6, 8-11. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 84, figs. 40, 45, 62, 150-174. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 37, fig.11. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 34, fig.20. Length of male 16.0-18.5 mm, of female 18.0-20.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 6-9 mm Overall color very dark brown or black, with pale yellow markings on neck, hemelytra, legs and connexivum. Integument with short sparse setae. Head dark, rugose and granulose, heavily so on sides of head before and behind eyes. Head slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55-0.60) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.90). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, only slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering or pointed distally, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-2.0. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment compressed, beset with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.6-3.8:2.5-2.8:2.0-2.4. Rostrum from yellowish to light brown, contrasting with dark head. Setae of rostrum sparse and short, those of apical segment more elongate, but not longer than diameter of segment. First rostral segment very short, extending only to level of apex of jugae, second not quite reaching level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.60-1.95:1.10-1.20. Neck dark, with a pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum sparsely granulose, blackish, in some specimens with anterior and lateral tubercles of anterior lobe and with apex of anterolateral projections yellowish. Anterior lobe with discal and with lateral tubercles, none prominent. Posterior lobe strongly wrinkled, uniformly dark. Submedian carinae not prominent, evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded, subangular. Anterolateral projections of pronotum small, conical, somewhat flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression. Posterior process of scutellum slightly less than half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, obliquely truncate at apex, in lateral view. Pleura dark, acetabula with small areas yellowish. Hemelytra attaining or surpassing apex of seventh urotergite in male, in female more variable in length, from falling short of apex of seventh urotergite by up to 2 mm to closely approaching it. Corium largely pale yellow, irregularly darkened at center, with veins of central portion conspicuouslydark. Membrane fumose, light brown, much lighter than darker portions of corium. Veins of membrane somewhat darker than cells but not strikingly so, and portion of Cu separating cells not darker than remainder of vein and not bordered with dark. Legs with coxae dark brown; trochantera and femora pale yellow, the latter with subapical annulus, in some cases also darkened subbasally. Tibiae from yellow to brown, with narrow basal annulus very pale, and apex darkest; yellow portions of legs of varying color intensity. Legs relatively slender, fore femora about six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of stout denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Venter convex, very slightly flattened in females, delicately striate transversally. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Venter uniformly brown except small areas at outer margin adjacent to connexivum; the latter pale yellow, dorsally and ventrally with dark spot at margin, straddling intersegmental suture; in some cases, transverse narrow dark line along intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma guazu@Triatoma guazu, new species Figures 77-79 DIAGNOSIS: This species resembles T oliveirai, but differs from the latter by many characters, such as the short rostral setae, the larger eyes and ocelli, the unicolorous pronotum, the horizontal scutellar process, the nonabbreviated hemelytra, and the quite different shape of the ninth urotergite. Female (only sex known). Length 30 mm, width of pronotum 7 mm, of abdomen 12 mm Overall color black, with yellow markings on neck, corium and connexivum . Pilosity short and sparse; integument polished. Head black, rugose, weakly granulose, twice as long as wide (1:0.5), and longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, only slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae narrowly rounded distally. Eyes large, in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower and but little distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.25. Ocelli large, their distance from eyes equal to their length. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.8:2.8:?. Rostrum dark reddish brown; first article falling slightly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind margin of eyes. Rostrum stout, with relatively sparse hairs, shorter than diameter of respective articles, longest at base of third article dorsally. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.5:1.2. Neck black, with l+ 1 lateral spots yellow. Pronotum entirely black. Anterior lobe weakly sculptured, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose; submedian carinae extending to posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeri broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections laterally directed, very small, subconical. Scutellum black, strongly rugose, median depression shallow, small. Posterior process of scutellum short, one-half as long as main body of sclerite, narrowly rounded distally, horizontal, with apex slightly downtumed. Hemelytra attaining apex of eighth urotergite, their overall color pale. Clavus black at base and narrowly along outer border. Basal half of corium light yellow; apical half of corium and entire membrane light yellowish brown; membrane fumose. Veins of hemelytra dark brown except pale at base of corium. Legs entirely black. Fore femora 6.3 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of small subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae absent (male unknown). Abdomen wide , with most urotergites narrowly exposed. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, with sparse short setae. Spiracles close to but not adjoining connexival suture . Apex of abdomen as shown in figure 79D, with sides of eighth urotergite rounded. Urosternites black. Connexivum black, disc of each segment with large subrectangular yellow spot, extending ventrally from outer margin to connexival suture and enclosing spiracle on adjacent portion of urosternite; dorsally, yellow spot not attaining connexival suture. Intersegmental sutures enclosed in narrow transverse black band.
Triatoma hegneri@Triatoma hegneri Mazzotti Figures 80, 81 Triatoma hegneri Mazzotti, 1940c, p. 22, I fig.Usinger, 1944, p. 55, pl. 9, fig.B. Male (female unknown). Length 28-29 mm; width of pronotum 6.5-7.0 mm, of abdomen 10.5-11.0 mm . Overall color from dark brown to black, with orange-yellow spots on neck and connexivum and yellow markings on corium. Setae very short and sparse, inapparent. Head transversely rugose dorsally, punctate, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.45-0.50) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.3); postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Genae tapering distally, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not quite attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.3. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus, appearing bare, viz., its setae very short and sparse. Second segment with strong declinate setae about as long as diameter of segment, as well as with very numerous short, delicate, erect hairs. Ratio of first two antennal segments 1:2.5-3.0. Rostrum with very short, inconspicuous hairs, becoming longer only on third segment. First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8-2.0:0.5-0.6. Neck dark, with l + l orange yellow spots laterally. Pronotum with anterior lobe black, posterior lobe contrastingly dark reddish brown. Pronotum distinctly constricted laterally at level of transverse sulcus. Surface of anterior lobe smooth, glabrous, with low carinae. Discal and lateral tubercles small but distinct. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose, in some specimens sublateral carinae crossed by rugosities; carinae not attaining posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded. Scutellum with central portion depressed, rugose, not limited by distinct ridges. Posterior process stout, about as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, slightly deflected apically. Anterolateral angles shortly conical, pointed, laterally directed. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium without perceptible setae, yellow, with large central dark spot of variable size but not reaching costal margin; apex of corium dark. Legs of medium length, fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid legs. Abdomen flattened below longitudinally along middle, but flattened portion not sharply divided from lateral rounded portion of venter. Urosternites minutely striate transversally. Hairs of venter inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by from one to two times their diameter. Venter and connexivum uniformly dark, or connexival segments on posteroextemal angle each with small orange yellow spot of variable extension, extending onto connexival suture .
Triatoma incrassata@Triatoma incrassata U singer Figures 82, 83 Triatoma incrassata Usinger, 1939, p. 45; 1944, p. 70, pl. 12, fig.D. Triatoma incrassata incrassata: Ryckman, 1962, p. 109, pl. 9, fig.Q. Triatoma incrassata apachensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 119, pl. 9, fig.R. Length of male 17.5, of female 19.0-19.8 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0, of female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male 6.0, of females 6.5 mm Head granulose, distinctly convex above, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region over twice as long as postocular (1:0.4), postocular with sides rounded but less prominently so than in barberi, verrucose. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, very strongly swollen posteriorly. Head with distinctive arcuate impression at base of clypeus. Genae narrowly tapered anteriorly, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head in side view with clypeus and region above eyes strongly elevated, separated by very deep depression; under surface sinuate, salient behind eyes. Eyes remote from level of dorsal and almost attaining level of under surface of head. Eyes small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:3.0-3.5. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending beyond two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with short adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.9-3.2:2.3-2.4:1.8. Rostrum with relatively short hairs, the latter becoming longer at apex of second and uniformly long on third segment. First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.25:0.40. Neck with I+ 1 lateral light-colored spots. Pronotum uniformly dark, trapezoi dal, with sides conspicuously diverging toward behind, delicately carinate, only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe distinctly elevated, granulose on rough areas, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose, submedian carinae falling short of hind margin. Humeri rounded, distinctly elevated. Anterolateral angles salient, anterolaterally directed, rounded apically. Scutellum rugose, central portion distinctly impressed, limited laterally by sharp carinae. Apical process of scutellum very short, conical, half as long as main body of scutellum, its apex deflected. Hemelytra falling short of apex of abdomen by 0.5 mm in female, practically attaining apex of abdomen in male; of general body color, but membrane dark brown, fumose, somewhat lighter colored along base. Legs uniformly dark, short and stout; fore femora 3.5-3.7 times as long as wide, minutely granulose. Fore and mid femora with four to five small denticles subapically. Male with minute spongy fossula on fore and mid tibiae. Females with spongy fossula on fore tibia only. Venter convex, its setae inconspicuous. Urosternites minutely striate transversally. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum entirely yellow ventrally and broadly along entire connexival margin dorsally; inner portion of dorsal connexival segments of general body color.
Triatoma indictiva@Triatoma indictiva Neiva Figures 84, 85 Triatoma indictiva Neiva, 1912, p. 22. Pinto, 1931, p. 66, figs. 18, 19. Triatoma sanguisuga indictiva: Usinger, 1944, p. 68, pl. 11, fig.E. Triatoma sanguisuga occidentalis Usinger, 1944, p. 69, pl. 11, fig.D. Length of male 18.0-20.5 mm, of female 18.5-22.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 5.0-5.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 6.5-7.5 mm, of female 7-8 mm Overall color from piceous to black, with reddish markings on connexivum; base and subapical region of corium faintly lightened, hind lobe of pronotum equally somewhat lighter, possibly due to fading of preserved specimens; lighter areas in no case distinctly contrasting with dark areas. Pilosity inconspicuous, most distinct on under surface of abdomen and on legs. Head granulose, about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5-0.6), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.0-1.1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.4). Postocular region distinctly rounded in dorsal view. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.35-1.70 (1:0.8-1.1 in specimens from west coast of Mexico). Ocelli comparatively small, their diameter smaller than their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles situated on basal third of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of apex of clypeus; second segment only with adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3:2.0:1.7. Rostrum only with short, scattered hairs; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.75-1.85:0.50. Neck with I+ I lateral reddish spots. Pronotum uniformly piceous or black, almost imperceptibly lightened on posterior lobe. Anterior lobe with I+ I low but distinct discal tubercles; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe rugose; submedian carinae extending along entire length of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, not distinctly elevated. Anterolateral angles of pronotum short and stout, conical or blunt and widely rounded apically. Scutellum heavily rugose, with cordiform central depression, sublateral carinae acute, continuous. Apical scutellar process straight, narrow, apex deflected, rounded, process almost as long as main body of scutellum. Hemelytra attammg apex of abdomen. Corium with short, inconspicuous concolorous setae. Hemelytra uniformly dark brown or piceous when observed directly, but with faint lighter markings on corium basally and subapically, as well as on clavus when seen with magnification. Legs uniformly dark, stout, fore femora about six times as long as wide. Femora of first and second pairs with I+ I subapical pointed denticles. Tibiae of first and second pairs of male with minute spongy fossula, absent in female. Abdomen except connexivum uniformly dark; ventrally with abundant but short pilosity; delicately striate transversally. Spiracles close to but not contiguous with connexival suture . Connexivum from piceous to black; posterior sixth or seventh of each connexival segment narrowly reddish, reddish color extending on to suture; markings identical ventrally and dorsally, not extending on urosternites. Venter from convex to slightly flattened on center longitudinally.
Triatoma infestans@Triatoma infestans (Klug) Figures 24A, F, L; 25F; 26F; 270; 30A, B; 87-90 Reduvius infestans Klug in Meyen, 1834, p. 412. Conorhinus infestans: Berg, 1879a, p. 266. Reed, 1901, p. 94. Triatoma infestans: Neiva, 19lld, p. 462; 1914a, p 45. Porter, 1920, p. 16, fig.2. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 876, pl. 47, fig.I. Pinto, 1930, p. 216, figs49-51, pl. 4, fig.I; 1931, p. 68, fig.19. Mazza and Jorg, 1940, p. 3, figs. 1-13. Wygodzinsky, 1949, p. 337. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 54, figs. 36, 49, 58, 64-80. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 45Conorhinus renggeri Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p. 71, pl. 271, fig.838 Conorhinus sex-tuberculatus Spinola in Gay, 1852, p. 218. Conorrhinus paulseni Philippi, 1860, p. 156. Conorrhinus gracilipes Philippi, 1860, p. 156. Conorrhinus octotuberculatus Philippi, 1860, p. 156. Conorhinus gigas Burmeister, 1861, p. 167 (nee Fab- ricius) Conorhinus nigrovarius Blanchard, 1890, p. 473. Triatoma infestans erythrophthalmus Noe and Silva, 1949, p. 5. Triatoma oswaldoi Neiva and Pinto, 1923b, p. 46. Eutriatoma oswaldoi: Nifio, 1936, p. 607. Triatoma sordelli Dios and Zuccarini, 1926, p. 179, pl. I. Triatoma mazzae Jorg, 1937, p. 33, figs. 1-9, 11-14. Length of male 21-26 mm, of female 26-29 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 6.0-6.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 8-10 mm, of female 8.5-10.0 mm Overall color black (dark brown in many museum specimens), with yellow markings on corium, legs, and connexivum. Integument sparsely granulose; pilosity short and sparse. Head black, delicately rugose and sparsely granulose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.50-0.55), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.3), the latter with sides rounded. Clypeus widened on posterior half. Genae rounded distally, slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view very close to or attaining level of under surface of head but remote from level of its upper surface. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.8. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed bristles not more than half as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.5-3.7:2.9-3.3:2.0-2.3. Rostrum as dark as or distinctly lighter colored than head. Setae of rostrum very short on first and most of under surface of second segment. Distal portion of under surface of second segment and its entire upper surface as well as entire third segment dorsally, ventrally, and laterally with dense hairs much longer than diameter of segment, longest at base of third segment and progressively decreasing in length toward apex of rostrum. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not quite reaching level of apex of antenniferous tubercles. Second segment attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-2.0:1.0. Neck black, with I+ 1 lateral spots yellow. Pronotum uniformly shining black. Anterior lobe with I+ 1 small discal tubercles, their apex in many cases yellowish, and in some specimens with l + 1 feeble posterosublateral tubercles; lateral tubercles invariably present although small. Elevated portions of anterior lobe setose but not granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third of hind lobe but evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded; humeri distinctly elevated, convex. Anterolateral projections short and blunt. Scutellum entirely black, strongly rugose, with distinct central depression. Posterior process of scutellum elongate, conical, wide at base, narrowly tapering apically, horizontal, slightly shorter than main body of scutellum. Hemelytra falling short of apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Overall color of hemelytra dark, with corium almost black but membrane brown, fumose, not as dark as dark portions of corium. Clavus black, with large pale yellow spots at base. Corium in most specimens with one pale yellow spot subbasally and invariably with yellow subapical spot situated at apex of cell formed by r and m. Veins of membrane dark. Legs with fore femur from five to six times as long as wide. Legs black, with trochantera and bases of femora conspicuously yellow; in some specimens, a faint yellow subbasal annulus on tibiae and a somewhat light-colored area on femor submedially. Fore and mid femora with 1 + l small subapical denticles, very rarely present also on hind femur. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, rather coarsely striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously setose. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark brown to black. Connexivum black, each segment with large yellow spot, remote from anterior but closely approaching posterior border of segment and adjoining connexival suture; yellow area briefly extending on urostemite mainly at area of spiracles.
Triatoma lecticularia@Triatoma lecticularia (Stal) Figures 24K; 91-93 Conorhinus lecticularius Stal, 1859:107. Triatoma lecticularius: Usinger, 1944, p. 62. Thur- man et al., 1948, p. 59, fig.I. Conorhinus lenticularius: Stal, 1868: 124 (sic). Conorhinus variegatus Stal, 1872, p. 111 (pro parte). Triatoma heidemanni Neiva, 19llc, p. 441; 1914a, p. 41. Blatchley, 1926, p. 554. Pinto, 1931, p. 66, fig.15. Packchanian, 1940, p. 1300, pl. l, figs. 1-33. Usinger, 1943, p. 604, figs. IA, B. Conorhinus heidemanni: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Triatoma occulta Neiva, 19llc, p. 441; 1914a, p. 56. Triatoma lecticularius occulta: Usinger, 1944, p. 63, pl. l, fig.L; pl. ll, fig.H. Triatoma sanguisuga Neiva, 1914a, p. 63 (pro parte) Conorhinus lectularius: Neiva, 1914a, p. 63. Conorhinus occulata Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Triatoma \ecticularius ftoridana Usinger, 1944, p. 63, pl. ll, fig.G. Length of male 16-22 mm, of female 18-23 mm, width of pronotum of male 3.7-5.5 mm, of female 4.2-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 5-8 mm, of female 6.5-8.5 mm Overall color piceous, with orange or orange-yellow markings on pronotum, pleura, corium, connexivum, and ventral surface of abdomen. Pilosity well developed on entire body including corium. Head granulose, uniformly dark, conspicuously convex between eyes; slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1-1.2). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides convex, converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.3 (1: 1.4 in Florida specimens). Antenniferous tubercles situated on posterior third of anteocular region, comparatively close to eyes. First antennal segment falling short of apex of clypeus; second segment with short hairs only. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4-3.7:2:1.8. Rostrum conspicuously hairy, especially on second and third segments; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5:0.5. Neck of uniform light color. Pronotum dark, with 1+ 1 orange bands on lateral margins of posterior lobe, narrow anteriorly, becoming wider posteriorly and extending onto humeri; posterior margin of pronotum in some specimens lighter colored, as are submedian carinae and collar with anterolateral processes; in some specimens, dark areas of posterior lobe of pronotum reduced to one wide median and 1 + 1 sublateral stripes, with orange color extending as 1 + 1 wide lateral and 1+ 1 submedian spots occupying carinae and triangularly widened posteriorly, confluent behind with lateral markings. Anterior lobe without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose, with conspicuous dark setae on entire surface; submedian carinae evanescent posteriorly. Humeral angles rounded, slightly elevated. Anterolateral angles short, rounded apically. Pleura dark, acetabula yellowish in many specimens. Scutellum dark; central portion only very slightly depressed, limited by irregular carinae; apical process shorter than main body of scutellum, setose, tapering distally, its apex deflected. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium with large central spot of general color, with basal and subapical spots orange-yellow; outer border of corium narrowly bordered with light color; entire surface of corium with conspicuous adpressed black setae . Legs hairy, dark, but with coxae in many cases lightened. Fore and mid femora with 2+2 very short denticles subapically. Tibiae of first and second pair of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen convex below in male, from convex to distinctly flattened in center longitudinally in female. Surface sculpture consisting of irregular wrinkles, delicate transverse striation limited to small areas. Spiracles remote from connexival suture . Venter conspicuously pilose, piceous with orangeyellow markings at level of light-colored connexival markings, covering intersegmental sutures and extending along lateral borders of urosternites; in some cases, entire venter tinged with orange, especially on basal half. Connexival segments dark, posteriorly with orange-yellow spot narrowly extending across intersegmental suture onto anterior portion of following segment; extension of light markings variable. Connexivum with distinct adpressed setae.
Triatoma lenti@Triatoma lenti Sherlock and Serafim Figures 24J; 94, 95 Triatoma lenti Sherlock and Serafim, 1967, p. 76, figs. I, 5, 6, 8-10, 14-16. Triatoma pessoai Sherlock and Serafim, 1967, p. 80, figs. 2, 4, 7, 11-13, 17-19 (new synonymy). Triatoma bahiensis Sherlock and Serafim, 1967, p. 86, figs. 3, 20-22 (new synonymy). Triatoma pessoai var. bahiensis: Sherlock and Serafim, 1972, p. 268. Length of male 25-26 mm, of female 26.5-27.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.5-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.5-l0.0 mm; of female ll mm . Overall color black, with yellow or orangeyellow markings on neck and connexivum, rarely on corium. Pilosity short and sparse. Head black, feebly rugose and granulosepunctate, approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.80-0.85). Anteocular region four to five times as long as postocular (1:0.20-0.25), postocular with sides slightly rounded, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae rounded apically. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles unusually long and slender, their apex situated slightly before middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. First, second, and extreme base of third segment black, remainder contrastingly yellow. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.4-4.25:2.1-2.5:1.8-2.1. Rostrum black; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending approximately to level of center of eye or slightly longer, but invariably falling short of level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical, with medium-sized hairs, becoming as long as or longer than diameter of respective segments on upper surface of apical portion of second and on entire third segment, especially numerous on upper surface. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-2.1:0.7-0.9. Neck black, with pair of lateral orange-yellow spots. Pronotum entirely black. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not granulose, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose. Submedian carinae extending over twothirds or three-fourths of lobe, evanescent posteriorly. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections short, stout, rounded apically. Scutellum with median depression shallow, its posterior process elongate, about as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal, rugose at base, rounded apically. Hemelytra in most cases conspicuously shorter than abdomen; in males generally not extending beyond base or middle of seventh urotergite; in female, hemelytra extending to middle or to apical portion of sixth urotergite. Corium and clavus black, membrane fumose, dark brown, with black veins; small yellowish stripe between apical portion of corium and adjacent area of membrane. Rarely, corium with small basal and somewhat larger subapical spots whitish. Legs uniformly black, slender. Fore femora seven to eight times as long as wide, conspicuously narrowed submedially . Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen unusually wide ; lateral portions of urotergites not covered by hemelytra. Venter convex, almost imperceptibly flattened in female, delicately striate transversally, with sparse short setae. Urosternites dark brown or black, except small yellow areas enclosing spiracles. Connexivum black, with disc of each segment occupied by yellow or orange-yellow spot; size of light-colored spots variable , attaining or not connexival suture, and almost invariably remote from intersegmental sutures and generally closer to anterior than to posterior suture.
Triatoma leopoldi@Triatoma leopoldi (Schouteden) Figures 96, 97 Conorhinus leopoldi Schouteden, 1933, p. 64. Triatoma leopoldi: Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 186. Lent, 1951d, p. 426; 1953b, p. 316. Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Triatoma novaeguineae Miller, 1958, p. 67, figs93-95. Monteith, 1974, p. 91, figs. 1, 2 (new synonymy). Length of male 19.5-20.5 mm, of female 21-23 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5, of female 5.5-6.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5 mm, of female 8.5-9.5 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with yellowish or orange-red markings on pronotum, corium and connexivum. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Pilosity short, inapparent. Head granulose and slightly rugose dorsally, dark reddish brown with 1 + 1 longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally. Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6) and as long as pronotum (1:1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.35); postocular with sides slightly rounded, convergent posteriorly. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened on basal half. Genae pointed apically. In lateral view, eyes attaining or slightly surpassing level of lower surface but not reaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.9-2.3. Distance of ocelli from hind border of eyes subequal to length of diameter of ocelli. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first segment small, its apex falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.8-4.5:2.5-3.0:2.5. Rostrum with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment, setae not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.4-l.6:0.4. Pronotum dark brown or black, with collar and anterolateral processes, lateral margins, elevated areas of anterior lobe, and large central spot and lateral areas of posterior lobe, light reddish brown. Central light spot of posterior lobe elongate subtriangular, beginning narrowly at level of transverse suture, widening posteriorly and attaining posterior margin of pronotum. Lateral markings of posterior lobe elongate, widest on humeri, from there extending shortly mesad to area of median carinae, thus irregular L-shaped. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated areas, with obsolescent discal and without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily rugose, faintly granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior border. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles narrowly conical, conspicuously pointed. Scutellum with sides dark, central area and posterior process red. Central depression and limiting ridges distinct. Posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male; in female extending only slightly beyond center of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish red at base and subapically. Clavus, apex of corium and large spot of variable size at center of corium, dark brown or black. Large central spot of corium connected to apical dark spot or not, partially separated from costal margin by narrow yellow line along margin. Membrane as dark as darkest area of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 3-4 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in male, more distinctly but not conspicuously so in female. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark reddish brown; pilosity inapparent. Connexivum yellowish or orange-red, dorsally and ventrally with large dark spot at center of each segment, spots not attaining outer border or intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma limai@Triatoma limai Del Ponte Figures 98-100 Triatoma limai Del Ponte, 1929, p. 6, fig.6. Neotriatoma limai: Pinto, 1931, p. 122. Mazza and Jorg, 1937, p. 33, figs. 1-5. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 124, figs. 240, 242-25la. Triatoma (Neotriatoma) limai: Lima, 1940, p. 198. Triatoma circummaculata limai: Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 45, figs. 17, 18. Length of male 15-17, of female 16.5-18.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm, width of abdomen of male 6 mm, of female 6.0-6.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with pale yellow markings on corium and connexivum. Pilosity very short, inconspicuous. Head of general body color, distinctly rugose and granulose, with setae- short, inapparent. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.5), and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region about two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0.40-0.45); postocular with sides distinctly convex, angularly projecting. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae large, rounded distally, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.1-1.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, not projecting beyond middle of genae. Second antennal segment comparatively thick, very slightly flattened, beset with longitudinally arranged stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.5:3.3:2.5. Rostrum of same color or only slightly lighter than head. Setae of rostrum very short and sparse, except scattered longer ones at apex of third segment. First rostral segment very short, not attaining basal third of distance between apex of antenniferous tubercle and apex of head. Second rostral segment extending to level of anterior margin of eyes, third as long as second, reaching to or even beyond base of neck. First rostral segment subcylindrical, second slightly and third very strongly flattened dorsoventrally, very thin in lateral view. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3:2.3-2.4. Neck dark, with a pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum uniformly dark brown, in some cases humeri slightly lighter. Anterior lobe delicately granulose on elevated portions, and without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum sublaterally directed, subconical, very short. Scutellum of general body color, with distinct median depression. Posterior process subcylindrical, horizontal or slightly upward bent at tip, more than half as long as main body of scutellum, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite. Corium dark brown or blackish, with large basal and apical areas light yellow, connected by narrow yellow line along costal margin. Membrane light brown, fumose, much lighter than dark portions of corium; veins of membrane conspicuously dark. Legs uniformly dark, comparatively short; fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter rounded in both sexes, delicately striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously pilose. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark brown. Connexivum pale yellow, with transverse black stripe straddling intersegmental suture, the portion occupying hind border of anterior segment smaller than that on anterior portion of posterior segment. Transverse dark markings relatively large, one-half or more than one-half as long as intervening yellow spaces. Light color of connexivum shortly invading urostemites, especially on area of spiracles.
Triatoma longipennis@Triatoma longipennis Usinger Figures 16A; 101, 102 Triatoma longipennis Usinger, 1939, p. 48. Triatoma phyllosoma longipennis: Usinger, 1944, p. 61, pl. 10, fig.c. Triatoma phyllosoma usingeri Mazzotti, 1943a, p. 81 (pro parte); 1944, p. 60, pl. 10, fig.D. Triatoma phyllosoma intermedia Usinger, 1944, p.61. Length of male 29-34 mm, of female 30-37 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5-7.0 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 12.0-13.5 mm, of female 13-15 mm Body unusually wide. Overall color dark brown or black, with yellow or orange spots on neck, rarely on humeri, on corium and on connexivum. Setae abundant, 0.1-0.3 mm long. Head black, weakly granulose, shallowly rugose transversally along center above, with numerous forwardly inclined setae. Head two to two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.4-0.5) and from longer to very slightly shorter than pronotum (l:0.85-1.05). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides subparallel, very slightly rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, shortly and abruptly widened on basal half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, either attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus, or falling slightly short of it. Eyes in side view from barely attaining to slightly surpassing level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis of male 1:1.4-2.1, of female 1:2.1-2.5, viz., eyes of males larger than those of females. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment from attaining to slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2.9:2.0:1.8. Rostral segments stout, cylindrical, with short setae but hairs longer than diameter of segment on third. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.45-1.55:0.5- 0.6. Rostrum dark reddish brown to black. Neck laterally with I+ I orange-red markings. Pronotum uniformly dark brown or black, in some specimens with small orange spot on humeri. Pronotum not granulose, with stiff setae from very short ( 0.1 mm) and adpressed to longer (up to 0.3 mm) and semierect. Structure of pronotum and scutellum as in phyllosoma; scutellum uniformly dark. Mesostemum with numerous long erect hairs; metastemum with similar hairs in large or small number, or only with short decumbent setae. Hemelytra and wings fully developed although appearing narrow as compared to unusually wide abdomen, leaving extreme lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Hemelytra of males attaining middle or apex of urotergite VII, those of female reaching but not extending beyond hind margin of urotergite VI. Corium with short (0.1 mm) adpressed setae , or somewhat longer (0.2 mm) decumbent ones. Corium black, with large triangular basal marking yellow or orange colored, and with smaller subapical spot of similar color, the latter mark in some specimens very small or imperceptible. Clavus entirely dark. Legs as in phyllosoma; fore femora 6.1-6.9 times as long as wide. Venter convex, delicately but shallowly striate transversally; pilosity of venter varying from short and decumbent (in specimens with short setae on metastemum) to long and semierect (in specimens with long hairs on metasternum). Spiracles remote from connexival suture by one to several times their diameter. Connexivum dark brown or black, each segment on posterior half or third with yellow or orange-red irregularly shaped marking adjoining abdominal margin and extending or not to connexival suture. Spots similar on dorsal and ventral surface; ventral spots in some cases extending very shortly to posterolateral comer of respective urostemite.
Triatoma maculata@Triatoma maculata (Erichson) Figures 7A-D;. 8B; lOB; 17; 30C, D; 103-105 La Punaise Mouche Bigarree Stoll, 1788, p. 82, pl. 20, fig.140. Conorrhinus maculatus Erichson in Schomburgk, 1848, p. 614. Conorhinus maculatus: StAI, 1859, p. 108. Triatoma maculata: Neiva, 1914, p. 47. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 881, fig.8. Correa and Espinola, 1964, p. 117, figs. 5, 6, 9, 10. Lucena, 1973, p. 176. Galvao, 1973, p. 367, figs. la, le, 3a, 3c, 4a, 4c, . Sa, Sc, 6a, 6c. Cobben and Wygodzinsky, 1975, p. 15, figs. 155, 156. Eutriatoma maculata: Pinto, 1931, p. 90, fig.35. Conorhinus immaculata Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Length of male 16.5-21.5 mm, of female 17.5-22.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4-5 mm, of female 4.0-5.5 mm, width of abdomen of male and female 5.5-8.0 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with light yellow, orange-yellow or light red marks on head, neck, thorax , corium and connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head comparatively wide, very high posteriorly in lateral view, delicately rugose and granulose, especially at sides. Overall color of head from dark brown to black; very rarely uniformly dark, in most specimens dorsally with light pattern elements of variable extension, from very extensive to scarcely perceptible. Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6- 0.7) and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (l: l.0-1.l). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.35), postocular almost entirely occupied by ocelliferous tubercles with ocelli, its sides rounded but strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened behind middle. Genae tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae rounded or wideangled apically. Eyes very large, in lateral view considerable surpassing level of under, and almost attaining level of upper, surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.9-l.l. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment slightly compressed, beset with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.2-5.0:2.8- 3.2: l. 9-2.4. Rostrum as dark as head capsule, relatively stout. Setae of rostrum short and sparse on first and second and very numerous and elongate on third segment, as long as diameter of same. First rostral segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments l:l. 9-2.2:0. 9-1.0., viz., first segment as long as or slightly longer than third. Neck with pair of lateral light-colored spots. Pronotum not distinctly granulose, its overall color from dark brown to black. Anterior lobe entirely dark, or with discal and lateral tubercles, or only discal tubercles, or also with small area on each side between base of longitudinal carinae and lateral tubercles, orange or yellow. Posterior lobe dark, in most specimens with three pairs of yellow or orangeyellow spots, one pair anterosublateral, one humeral, and one posteromedian. Spots in some specimens confluent to a certain degree, or one or the other pair evanescent, but invariably at least one pair present. Anterior lobe of pronotum with distinct although not large discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections elongate subtriangular, compressed dorsoventrally, anterolaterally directed. Pleura dark, propleura and mesopleura with light spot at hind margin , in some cases spot also on mesopleura. Scutellum entirely dark, coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression; sides of scutellum swollen. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, rounded apically. Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes; their color from light to very dark brown , with veins of membrane and of central portion of corium contrastingly blackish. Clavus dark on basal fourth, contrastingly light colored on remainder. Corium with more or less extensive yellowish or orange longitudinal markings intermixed with dark areas. Membrane fumose, lighter colored than dark portions of corium. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femur 4.5-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in females, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Urosternites from dark brown to black, except small lateral yellow area enclosing spiracles. Connexivum from light yellow to orangeyellow or reddish, with wide transverse black bands on intersegmental sutures, occupying entire width of connexival segments. Light-colored areas occupying from one-half to threefifths of length of respective connexival segment. Male genitalia with endosomal processes of aedeagus lacking apical denticles, their distal portion with irregularly ribbon-shaped sclerotizations .
Triatoma matogrossensis@Triatoma matogrossensis Leite and Barbosa Figures 29E; 106, 107 Triatoma (Eutriatoma) matogrossensis Leite and Barbosa, 1953, p. l, figs. 1-4. Length of male 24.5-28.0 mm, of female 28-30 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.8-6.0 mm, of female 5.5-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7-9 mm, of female 9-10 mm Overall color dark brown or dark reddish brown, with light yellowish brown areas on neck, hind lobe of pronotum, hemelytra, legs, and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse, even on legs. Head dark brown, feebly rugose and granulose-punctate, more than twice as long as wide (1:0.4), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.75). Anteocular region four to five times as long as postocular (1:0.2-0.25), postocular with sides almost straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining or closely approaching level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.7. Antenniferous tubercles relatively slender, situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. First, second, and extreme base of third segment black, remainder contrastingly yellow. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.75.1:3.1-3.6:2.4-2.8. Rostrum yellowish brown, lighter than head capsule, very slender. First rostral segment falling considerably short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending to level of posterior border of eyes. Setae of rostrum short and sparse, only slightly longer at base of upper surface of third segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.5-2.8:l.2-l.4. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum dark brown or reddish brown, with l+ 1 yellowish brown spots on humeri. Anterior lobe sparsely granulose, with discal tubercles from small but distinct to forming inconspicuous elevations. Lateral tubercles not developed. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third of hind lobe, evanescent posteriorly. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections shortly conical, rounded or almost pointed apically. Scutellum with median depression shallow. Apical process of scutellum short, slightly over half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, narrowly rounded or almost pointed apically. Hemelytra approaching or attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite in male, approaching base of seventh urotergite in female. Clavus dark brown at base, pale on apical half. Corium light brownish yellow, with area limited by Sc, R + M and R, a subapical spot, and part of veins, dark brown. Membrane fumose, light grayish brown, darker than light areas of corium; veins of membrane dark brown. Legs light yellowish brown; femora subapically with faint but perceptible dark spot or annulus; apex of tibiae darkened. Legs very long and slender; fore femora eight times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in female. Abdomen wide, lateral portions of urotergites exposed in many specimens. Venter distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, slightly so in male, delicately striate transversally, with distinct although short golden setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival sutures. Urosternites dark brown except small yellowish area enclosing spiracles. Connexivum light yellow or yellowish brown, dorsally with narrow transverse markings straddling intersegmental sutures; these markings very narrowly constricted at middle, widened along connexival suture and in some cases along outer margin posterior to intersegmental sutures. Ventral markings of connexivum faint, reduced in extension.
Triatoma mazzottii@Triatoma mazzottii Usinger Figures 168; 108, 109 Meccus phyllosoma: Champion, 1899, p. 209, pl. 12, fig.25 (nee Burmeister). Triatoma mazz.ottii Usinger, 1941, p. 54. Triatoma phyllosoma mazzottii: Usinger, 1944, p. 59, pl. IO, fig.A. Length of male 33 mm, of female 34 mm Width of pronotum of male and female 7 mm, of abdomen of male 13 mm, of female 14 mm Body unusually wide. Overall color dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on corium and connexivum. Setae numerous, most delicately hairlike , up to 0.5 mm in length. Head black, faintly rugose along center above, not granulose, with long hairs. Head twice as long as wide (1:0.45- 0.50), and as long as or very slightly longer than pronotum. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.3), postocular with sides almost straight, subparallel. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view invariably attaining level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4:1.9:? Rostrum dark brown or black. First rostral segment extending to level of middle of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical, with short setae except hairs longer than diameter of segment on third. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.55-1.70:0.25. Neck laterally with I+ l reddish markings. Thorax as in T phyllosoma. Hemelytra and wings of normal size, but leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites of unusually wide abdomen exposed. Hemelytra of males attaining or slightly extending beyond apex of abdomen, those of female attaining middle of urotergite VII. Corium with long (0.3-0.4 mm) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black, with one basal triangular and one subapical subquadrate spot red or orange-red. Clavus and membrane black. Legs black, elongate. Fore femur 7.5-8.3 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two subapical denticles, in some cases obsolescent. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Venter convex, delicately and shallowly striate transversally, with numerous decumbent long hairs. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to from two to three times their diameter. Connexivum black, posterior third or half of each segment with subquadrate orange red marking. On ventral surface, light-colored area of connexival segments posteriorly with short triangular extension on respective urostemites.
Triatoma melanocephala@Triatoma melanocephala Neiva and Pinto Figures 110-112 Triatoma melanocephala Neiva and Pinto, 1923c, p75. Pinto, 1925, p. 59, fig.39; 1931, p. 71 fig.8. Length of male 25.5-26.5 mm, of female 28 mm; width of pronotum of male 6-7 mm, of female 7 mm; width of abdomen of male 9.5-10.0 mm, of female 10 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, hemelytra and connexivum. Pilosity short, sparse, inconspicuous. Pleura and under surface of thorax and abdomen lightly polished. Head black, rugose, delicately granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0.6) and approximately as long as pronotum. Anteocular region from two and onehalf to three times as wide as postocular (1:0.3- 0.4), postocular with sides straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus conspicuously widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, attaining or very slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.2. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment (remaining not preserved) about three times as long as first, with semierect setae almost as long as diameter of segment. Rostrum as dark as head capsule; first segment extending to level of insertion of antennae, second extending slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical; dorsal surface of second segment, and under surface of apical half of second and entire third segment with dense long hairs, many longer than diameter of respective segments. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.6-1.8:0.7-0.8. Neck dark, with a pair of yellow spots laterally. Pronotum dark brown, with I+ l yellowish brown oval markings on disc of anterior half of posterior lobe, laterad of submedian carinae. Anterior lobe with one pair each of small but distinct discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae relatively short, evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections subconical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, their outer border yellowish. Scutellum uniformly dark. Median depression well developed, narrow. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal; apex slightly upturned, distally rounded. Hemelytra attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite. Color of hemelytra brown; base of clavus, cells of corium, especially that limited by Sc, R + M and R, and base of cells of membrane, darkest; apical two-thirds or threefourths of membranal cells distinctly lighter brown. Most veins of hemelytra contrastingly yellow, most also bordered with yellow; a conspicuous elongate yellow area near base of corium, adjoining claval suture. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, with short setae. Spiracles very close to or adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites uniformly dark, except minute yellow spot enclosing spiracles. Connexival segments with alternate black and light yellow transverse markings. Black markings straddling intersegmental sutures, of irregular shape and longer than yellow markings; the latter closer to posterior than to anterior intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma mexicana@Triatoma mexicana (Herrich-Schaeffer) Figures 6C; 113, 114 Conorhinus mexicanus Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p. 71, pl. 272, figs. 839, 840. Meccus mexicanus: Stal, 1859, p. 105. Triatoma mexicana: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 886. Pinto, 1931, p. 71, fig.23. Mazzotti, 1940b, p. 2, fig.1. Usinger, 1944, p. 52, pl. 9, fig.C. Male. Length 25-26 mm; width of thorax 5.5-6.0 mm, of abdomen 9-10 mm General color black, with yellow markings on neck, corium, and connexivum. Head long and narrow, longer than pronotum (l:0.85), delicately and sparsely granulose, dorsum transversally rugose along middle. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular, the latter with sides faintly rounded, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly tapered apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes prominent, in lateral view extending below level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.0-1.3. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly bel;ind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second (and third) segments with strong declinate setae somewhat longer than diameter of segment, and with very numerous short, delicate, erect hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4:2.7-3.0:2.5. Rostrum slender, with very short and sparse setae, becoming slightly longer on third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:1.70-1.75:0.45-0.50. Neck black, with I+l lateral yellow spots. Pronotum uniformly black. Anterior lobe smooth, ridges not prominent; discal tubercles present, elongate conical. Lateral tubercles distinct but smaller, subconical. Posterior lobe rugose, with lateral portions flaring; sides forming conspicuous angle with sides of fore lobe. Submedian carinae not attaining hind border of pronotum. Humeral angles acute, explanate or not. Sides of posterior lobe slightly reflexed, more strongly so posteriorly. Anterolateral angles prominent, spinelike. Scutellum with central portion depressed, rugose, sclerite carinate laterally. Posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, cylindrical, declinate apically. Hemelytra from approaching to slightly surpassing apex of abdomen. Clavus black on basal half, brownish translucent on apical portion. Corium yellow, including deflexed portion at its base, with large black spot along R extending almost .to lateral margin and to basal portion of M; cu and m-cu crossvein equally black. Base of dark area of Cu connected to sublateral dark spot; apex of corium black. Almost entire lateral border of corium narrowly yellow. Legs black, slender, fore femora 8.5-9.l times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles. Anterior tibiae of male with very small spongy fossula, absent on second pair (female not examined). Abdomen convex, flattened ventrally on segments III-V, flattened portion not limited by a ridge. Venter polished, minutely striate transversally, its setae inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by approximately twice their diameter. General color of abdomen black. Connexivum yellow, with irregularly shaped black markings on anterior third or half of each segment adjacent to intersegmental suture. Female. (Not seen; data taken from illustration in Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848). Similar to male, but with hemelytra abbreviated, not extending beyond base of seventh urotergite. Abdomen strongly widened , with hemelytra leaving lateral portions of urotergites exposed.
Triatoma migrans@Triatoma migrans Breddin Figures 19C; 115, 116 Triatoma migrans Breddin, 1903, p. Ill. Larrousse, 1924a, p. 69, fig.4. Lent, 195ld, p. 426. Triatoma pallidula Miller, 1941, p. 787, fig.lla-c. (new synonymy). Length of male 22.5-24.5 mm (very rarely 20 mm), of female 23.5-25.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 6. 5-7. 0 mm , of female 6.5-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 9-10 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm Overall color from yellowish to reddish brown, with dark brown or black markings on head, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Setae very short and sparse. Head granulose and slightly rugose dorsally, reddish brown with 1 + l longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally. Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6) and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular (l:0.35), postocular with sides rounded, subsemicircular. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened on basal half which is conspicuously elevated in side view. Genae rounded apically in lateral view, considerably surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes distinctly surpassing level of under surface and close to level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.8. Ocelli unusually close to eyes, distance from ocellus to eye shorter than diameter of ocellus. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first very short, not extending beyond basal two-thirds of gena. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.8-4.2:2.4-2.9:1.9-2.6. Rostrum with short, inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment, but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.5:0.4- 0.5. Neck of uniform reddish color. Pronotum reddish brown; dark brown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four dark longitudinal stripes on posterior lobe, I+ I in areas between submedian carinae and outer border and 1 + 1 in space between carinae, adjacent to same. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated areas, with obsolescent discal and without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, only faintly granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles with unusually elongate, fingerlike, distally rounded projections. Scutellum with variable color pattern, in many cases black on anterior half and with apical process light colored, but in some specimens either color more or less widely extended. Posterior process only two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, strongly tapering from wide base to narrow apex. Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium dark at base, at apex and along extemal margin, and with irregularly shaped large central spot dark. Subbasal and subapical yellowish or reddish markings connected or not by a narrow light line along apical portion of R. Membrane as dark as dark portions of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femora 4.0-4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 3-4 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of males with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Abdomen rounded below although only very slightly so along center longitudinally. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or distant from same by diameter of spiracles. Pilosity of venter inapparent. Abdomen of general body color. Connexivum reddish, dorsally and ventrally with subrectangular transverse dark spot at center of each segment.
Triatoma neotomae@Triatoma neotomae Neiva Figures 268; 117, 118 Triatoma neotomae Neiva, 191la, p. 422; 1914a, p53. Pinto, 1931, p. 73, fig.24. Usinger, 1944, p 70, pl. 12, fig.E. Thurman, 1944, p. 116Conorhinus neotomae: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p 494. Length of males 16.5-17.5 mm, of females 17.5-19.5 mm, width of pronotum of males 4.0-4.5, of females 4.2-5.5 mm, of abdomen of males 5.0-5.5, of females 6.0-6.5 mm General color from dark brown to blackish, with orange-yellow markings on neck, humeral angles and connexivum, the corium partially light yellow. Head heavily rugose, slightly granulose, distinctly convex above eyes, not over twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5- 0.6), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.0-1.1). Anteocular region from two to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3- 0.45); postocular with sides rounded, widest at middle, somewhat convergent toward behind. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly and strongly widened toward posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate transverse impression at base of clypeus. Genae conspicuously rugose transversally, tapered apically, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head evenly convex above, but in side view with slight but distinct depression at level of base of clypeus; ventrally not salient behind eyes. Eyes in lateral view remote from level of upper but very close to level of under surface of head. Eyes comparatively small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.5-3.0. Antenniferous tubercles situated closer to eyes than to level of apex of anteocular region. First antennal segment short, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with short decumbent setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3-2.6:2.0-2.4:1.7-2.0. Rostrum with hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segment. First segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second reaching level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1. 7:0.6-0. 7. Neck entirely yellowish. Pronotum subquadrate, with sides carinate, not constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Thorax of general body color, humeral angles of pronotum each with yellowish spot attaining margin of sclerite. Anterior lobe slightly elevated, polished, without discal or lateral tubercles, very sparsely granulose. Posterior lobe rugose; humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles in shape of dorsoventrally flattened flap, broadly rounded and very short. Scutellum with depressed central portion limited by broad carinae; posterior process not more than half as long as main body of scutellum, pointed, declinate at apex. Hemelytra attammg or surpassing middle of eighth urotergite. Corium without perceptible setae, orange or pale yellow with large dark central spot which is longer than wide; dark also base of clavus and apex of corium. Membrane light fumose. Legs of general body color, stout; fore femora 3.6-3.8 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2+2 denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid tibiae of males and only on fore tibiae of females. Venter convex, sharply flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, with inconspicuous setae. Spiracles distant by one to three times their own diameter from connexival suture. Urosternites and urotergites of general body color. Connexival segments orange-yellow, each at middle with large dark, transversal, irregularly shaped marking extending over entire width of connexival segment, dorsally and ventrally.
Triatoma nigromaculata@Triatoma nigromaculata (Stal) Figures 119-121 Conorhinus variegatus: Still, 1859, p. 113 (nee Drury, 1773). Conorhinus nigromaculatus Still, 1872, p. 111. Triatoma nigromaculata: Neiva, 1914a, p. 55. Mazza and Jorg, 1944c, p. 34, figs. 1-10, pl. 2. Eutriatoma nigromaculata: Lent and Pifano, 1939, p. 627, figs. 1, 2. Length of male 21-22 mm, of female 23-24 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5 mm, of female 5.5-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.0-7.5 mm, of female 8-9 mm Overall color yellowish brown or light reddish brown, with numerous black areas and markings dorsally and dark brown areas ventrally. Setae yellow, short and sparse except longer and more numerous on venter. Head dark laterally and ventrally, yellowish brown dorsally on clypeus, dorsal surface of jugae, and entire dorsal surface of head from base of clypeus to hind border of head. Head rugose laterally, approximately twice as long as wide (l:0.45- 0.50) and slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.85-0.95). Anteocular region three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.30), postocular with sides straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, very narrow subapically, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae blunt apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae unusually small, narrowly rounded at apex. Eyes in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head, and in dorsal aspect from slightly narrower to slightly wider than synthlipsis (l:0.9-1.2). Antenniferous tubercles inserted at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous inclined setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-3.9:2.8- 3.1:2.0-2.3. Rostrum black, very slender. First rostral segment unusually short, not extending beyond middle of distance from apex of antenniferous tubercles to level of apex of clypeus. Second segment attaining level of neck. Rostrum with very short, sparse setae, except about as long as diameter of segment on lower surface of apical portion of second and on entire third segment; setae not dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.3-3.9:1.1-1.3. Neck black, without spots. Pronotum light yellowish brown, with conspicuous black markings. Anterior lobe with 1 + I discal but without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections strongly flattened dorsoventrally, large, prominent, cat-ear like. Anterior lobe of pronotum with elevated areas yellowish brown, smooth low areas (central area four-leaf clover shaped and sublateral areas H-shaped) black. Posterior lobe with 2+2 black markings covered with distinct golden hairs, the 1 + 1 submedian spots subrectangular, with transverse inferointernal incision, the I+ 1 sublateral spots oval. Collar and anterolateral projections light colored, collar with 1 + 1 black spots forming continuation of inner arms of Hshaped black area on fore lobe of pronotum. Scutellum light colored, with sides and central depression black, heavily rugose; posterior process reddish, almost as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, rounded apically in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Hemelytra attaining apical margin of urotergite VII, in both sexes. Color of hemelytra light yellowish brown, with dark brown or black pattern elements; small goldencolored setae scattered over corium, most numerous on veins. Corium with small elongate dark markings in lumen of cells; apical half of clavus also dark. Membrane with dark markings in cells and spaces between veins which are light colored; membranal cells with dark areas occupying almost entire lumen of cells, dark spot of inner membranal cell interrupted near base. Overall color of legs black; apex of femora and base of tibiae conspicuously annulate with yellow . Fore and mid femora with three or four stout spinelike denticles, two or three of which arranged continuously on one side, and one median less strongly developed one closer to apex. Hind femora with one smaller denticle. Spongy fossulae not developed in either sex. Abdomen convex. below, delicately striate transversally. Urosternites II-IV of male carinate longitudinally along middle; venter slightly flattened in female. Venter dark brown, with lateral portions of urosternites light colored, light areas forming undulate band. Setae of venter golden colored, longer and more dense than on rest of body. Connexivum light yellowish brown, disc of each segment dorsally with dark anvil-shaped spot at center, reduced in size on first and last visible segments. In some specimens median constriction of black markings complete so as to form two separate dark spots. Connexival segments with ventral spots simple, subrectangular.
Triatoma nitida@Triatoma nitida Usinger Figures 122-124 Triatoma nitida Usinger, 1939, p. 43; 1944, p. 71. Length of male 19.5-21.5 mm, of female 21.0-22.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 5.0-5.5 mm; of abdomen of male 6.5-7.0, of female 7.2 8.0 mm General color dark brown to black, with orange-yellow markings on head, neck, pronotum, acetabula, corium, and connexivum. Setae short, inapparent. Head of general body color but dorsally with orange-yellow markings of varied extension, from covering almost entire surface to only covering clypeus. Head heavily rugose, very slightly granulose, distinctly convex above, not over twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2-1.3). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4); postocular with sides only very slightly rounded, widest anteriorly, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened toward posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate impression at base of clypeus. Genae conspicuously rugose transversally, tapered at apex, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head with distinct depression at level of base of clypeus, in side view. Head not salient behind eyes ventrally. Eyes in lateral aspect remote from level of dorsal but extending very close to level of ventral surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.3-2. 7. Antenniferous tubercles closer to eyes than to apex of head. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with decumbent short setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.6-2.8:2.3:1.8-1.9. Rostrum with hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First segment falling slightly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8:0.6. Neck dark at center, light colored laterally. Pronotum subquadrate, with sides carinate, not distinctly constricted laterally at level of transverse sulcus. General color of thorax dark brown to black. Pronotum with collar and anterolateral angles, entire lateral border including humeral angles, and elevated looplike elements of anterior lobe, orangeyellow or light yellowish brown. Pronotum polished, anterior lobe not distinctly granulose; posterior lobe rugose, with sublateral carinae not very prominent. Humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles in shape of dorsoventrally flattened flap, broadly rounded and very short. Acetabula partially or entirely orange-yellow, contrasting with dark pleural areas. Scutellum of general body color but posterior process orange-yellow. Central depressed area of scutellum heavily rugose, limited by broad carinae; posterior process pointed, not more than half as long as main body of scutellum, declinate at apex. Hemelytra almost reaching apex of abdomen. Corium without perceptible setae, from pale to orange-yellow, with large central dark spot which is longer than wide; dark pigment also at base of clavus and on apex of corium. Membrane dark fumose. Legs stout, fore femora 4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2 + 2 denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid tibiae of males and only on fore tibiae of females. Legs dark brown, in some specimens coxae, trochantera, and base of femora somewhat lighter colored but not strongly contrasting with color or rest of leg. Venter sharply flattened longitudinally along middle, with irregular transverse minute wrinkles. Hairs of venter inapparent. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from latter by not more than their own diameter. Urosternites and urotergites of general body color. Connexivum orange-yellow, each segment at middle with large medially constricted dark spot extending across entire width of connexival segment.
Triatoma obscura@Triatoma obscura (Maldonado and Farr), new combination Figures 125, 126 Nesotriatoma obscura Maldonado and Farr, 1962, p. 190, figs, 10-18. Length of female examined, 25 mm, width of pronotum 5.5 mm, of abdomen 8.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with small yellowish brown spots on neck, anterolateral projections, discal and lateral tubercles of fore lobe of pronotum, apex of scutellum and on connexivum. Setae short but distinct, more slender than those of fiavida. Head conspicuously granulose dorsally, of general body color, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5) and as long as pronotum (1:1). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0.4); postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus only faintly widened behind middle. Genae slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, their apex narrowly tapered, almost pointed. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment blackish, second dark reddish brown. First segment attaining level of apex of clypeus, second segment with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of first and second antennal segments 1:2. 7. Rostrum slender, with inconspicuous short setae, but scattered long setae on apical segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment reaching to neck; third segment shorter than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3:0.6. Neck dark brown, with I+ 1 yellowish lateral spots. Pronotum of general color. Anterior lobe granulose, with 1 + l lateral small yellowish tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, wrinkled, not granulose. Submedian carinae poorly developed, evanescent on posterior half of posterior lobe. Humeral angles yellowish, angular, narrowly explanate, the explanate portion reflected in specimen examined. Lateral carinae of pronotum partly yellow. Anterolateral angles yellowish, subtriangular, compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum dark, apex of posterior process yellow. Main body of scutellum heavily and irregularly rugose, central depression barely developed. Scutellum anteriorly with l + 1 conspicuous submedian forwardly inclined pointed projections. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, horizontal, swollen apically, rounded at tip. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite, their overall color blackish, with almost imperceptible light-colored areas. Legs with femora dark brown, tibiae slightly lighter reddish brown. Legs slender, fore femora about eight times as long as wide. Femora without denticles, only somewhat prominent at usual area of insertion of denticles. Spongy fossulae absent. Venter flattened longitudinally along middle; delicately striate transversally. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by their own diameter. Pilosity of venter short but distinct. Venter dark reddish brown, spiracles enclosed in small yellowish area. Connexivum dark brown, segments with posterior fourth occupied by narrow transverse yellowish band, wider at external than at internal border of segment. Female genitalia strongly projecting back- wards.
Triatoma oliveirai@Triatoma oliveirai (Neiva, Pinto and Lent) Figures 127-129 Eutriatoma oliveirai Neiva, Pinto and Lent, 1939, p. 608, figs. I, 2. Triatoma (Eutriatoma) o\iveirai: Lima, 1940, p. 200. Female (male unknown). Length 25-27 mm; width of pronotum 5 mm, of abdomen 10 mm Overall color black, with orange or yellow markings on neck, in some cases on pronotum, and on connexivum; hemelytra largely yellow. Pilosity short and sparse; integument polished. Head black, rugose, weakly granulose, approximately twice as long as wide (l:0.45) and much longer than pronotum (l:0.75-0.80). Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular (1:0.3); postocular with sides straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae narrowly rounded apically. Eyes small, in lateral view close to but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2. Ocelli small, their distance from eyes equal to twice their length. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment approaching level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.0-4.2:2.7-3.0:2.2. Rostrum dark reddish brown; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Rostrum stout; first and second segments with short hairs, apex of second dorsally and entire third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment, most numerous at upper surface near base of third segment. Ratio of rostral segments I: I. 95- 2. l: l.0-1.2. Neck black, with I+ 1 lateral spots yellow. Pronotum black, with I+ l large humeral spots yellowish. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, with I+ I low discal and I+ I more conspicuous lateral tubercles; these tubercles black or orange yellow. Posterior lobe heavily rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections short, subconical, rounded apically. Scutellum black, heavily rugose, with deep but narrow median depression; lateral portions of scutellum strongly elevated. Posterior process of scutellum unusually short, only about half as long as main body of scutellum, oblique, subconical, its apex rounded. Hemelytra much shorter than abdomen, attaining or slightly surpassing limit between sixth and seventh urotergites. Overall color of hemelytra pale yellow, on corium as well as on membrane, without dark marks, only veins conspicuously darkened. Clavus of general color, except black at base and along outer margin. Legs uniformly black, slender. Fore femora seven times as long as wide. Femora of all pairs of legs with pair of small denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae absent (male not known). Abdomen very wide, lateral portions of urotergites widely exposed. Venter convex, distinctly but not sharply flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, with sparse, short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Apex of abdomen as shown in figure 1290; sides of eighth urotergite straight or slightly emarginated. Urosternites black; connexivum black, disc of each segment with large yellow mark extending from outer margin to connexival suture and ventrally enclosing spiracles; intersegmental sutures enclosed in narrow transverse black band.
Triatoma pallidipennis@Triatoma pallidipennis (Stal) Figures 130, 131 Meccus pallidipennis Stdl, 1872, p. 110. Champion, 1899, p. 210, pl. 12, figs, 24, 24a. Triatoma pallidipennis: Pinto, 1927, p. 108, figs. 8, 11. Triatoma phyllosoma pallidipennis: Usinger, 1944, p. 59, pl. 10, fig.E. Usinger, Wygodzinsky and Ryckman, 1966, p. 310, fig.IE. Triatoma phyllosoma usingeri Mazzotti, 1943a, p. 81, fig.2. Usinger, 1944, p. 60, pl. 10, fig.D, (new synonymy). Length of male 31-34 mm, of female 32-35 mm Width of pronotum of male 6-7 mm, of female 6.0-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 12-13 mm, of female 13-16 mm Body very wide , with relatively narrow wings. Overall color from very dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on neck and connexivum, and with corium almost entirely yellowish white. Setae of dorsal surface numerous, most short, not more than 0.3 mm long . Head black, faintly rugose above along center, not granulose, and with numerous stiff black setae. Head slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45) and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.90-0.95). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35); postocular with side feebly rounded, subparallel. Clypeus narrow, somewhat widened on posterior half. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, pointed in some specimens. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral view approaching or attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles short, situated slightly before middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff decumbent hairs about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2. 7: I. 9-2.0:1.4-1. 7. Rostrum dark reddish brown to in most cases black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second extending to level of hind border of head. Rostral segments subcylindrical, with short sparse setae, only third segment with not very dense setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.40-1. 75:0.40-0.65 Neck laterally with I+ I orange-red spots. Pronotum black, strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with numerous short, strongly decumbent or adpressed setae not longer than 0.3 mm Pronotum and scutellum otherwise as in phyllosoma . Meso and metastemum with long suberect hairs. Hemelytra and wings leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Hemelytra of males extending to middle of urotergite VII, of females not quite attaining posterior margin of urotergite VI. Corium with numerous short (0.1-0.2 mm) decumbent or adpressed setae , most of its surface yellowish white, faintly tinged with orange at base, dark at extreme apex. Basal half of clavus dark, apical half yellowish white. Membrane from dark brown to sooty black, yellowish white on narrow area adjacent to corium. Legs as in phyllosoma; fore femora 6.3-7.5 times as long as wide. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, and with numerous long semierect hairs. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to several times their diameter. Connexivum unusually wide, black; connexival plates posteriorly with orange-red markings of varied size , in most cases subtriangular and longest along outer connexival margin.
Triatoma patagonica@Triatoma patagonica Del Ponte Figures 132, 133 Triatoma patagonica Del Ponte, 1929, p. 6, fig.5; 1930, p. 889, pl. 51, figs. 1-3. Wygodzinsky and Abalos, 1950, p. 60, figs. 2, 6E, I, M; 7A-E; 8C; II. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 95, figs. 41, 63, 175, 190-193. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 54, pl. 2, fig.5. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 40, fig.23Eutriatoma (Triatoma) patagonica: Mazza, 1937, p 5, figs. 1-20. Length .of male 17.0-18,5 mm, of female 18-21 mm; width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 5-6, of female 6. 5-8. 0 mm Overall color blackish brown or black, with yellow or rarely reddish markings on neck, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument sparsely setose, appearing glabrous. Head black, delicate rugose dorsally, sparsely granulose, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4), postocular with sides faintly convex, converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, distinctly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l: 1.45-1. 75. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending close to level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment flattened, beset with numerous setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3- 4.0:2.3-3.0:1.8-2.l. Rostrum as dark as head capsule or more or less reddish. Setae of rostrum very short, except at apex of second and on third segment where setae are more numerous and about as long as diameter of segment, decreasing in length toward apex of third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of jugae, second extending to level of posterior margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.8-2.l:1.0-1.2. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum polished, black, in some specimens outer margin of anterolateral processes narrowly yellow. Anterior lobe with central portion conspicuously elevated, with l + l obsolescent discal tubercles. Lateral tubercles obsolescent. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle or posterior third of hind lobe. Humeri slightly elevated, humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, their apex rounded or blunt. Scutellum entirely dark, slightly convex, heavily rugose, its central depression well developed. Posterior process of scutellum about three-fifths as long as main body of sclerite, horizontal, subcylindrical or slightly compressed laterally, rounded at apex. Hemelytra approaching or attaining apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium brownish black, with large yellow subtriangular mark basally, not extending onto clavus. In some specimens, a yellow spot also on apex of corium, connected or not to basal spot by narrow light-colored stripe along costal margin of hemelytron. Membrane almost as dark as or slightly lighter than dark portion of corium, with veins slightly darker than membrane. Legs dark, femora with very narrow complete or incomplete apical annulus yellow . Legs slender, fore femora from six to six and one-half times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small denticles subapically, hind femora slightly prominent subapically below. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Venter convex, feebly flattened at center in female, shallowly striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjacent or close to connexival suture, distant from latter by not more than their own diameter. Venter black. Connexivum yellow, rarely reddish, light-colored area briefly extending to urotergites and urosternites, in latter including spiracles. Black transverse mark straddling intersegmental sutures, this dark area wide or more or less narrowed or constricted medially, in rare ca .. es divided into two spots.
Triatoma peninsularis@Triatoma peninsularis Usinger Figures 288; 134-136 Triatoma peninsularis Usinger, 1940, p. 73, Ryckman, 1962, p. 116, pl. 2, fig.N. Triatoma protracta peninsularis: Usinger, 1944, p. 74. Length of male 10.5-11.0 mm, of female 11-12 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 2.5-3.0 mm, width of abdomen of male and female 3.5-4.0 mm Overall color ,dark brown or black, only neck and membrane lighter colored. Body and appendages with short, inconspicuous setae. Head granulose, convex above, as long as pronotum and twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.45-0.50). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.45-0.50), postocular with sides prominently rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, strongly widened posteriorly; arcuate impression at base of clypeus absent. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head evenly convex above, in lateral view without perceptible depression at level of base of clypeus; head ventrally not salient behind eyes. Eyes Yery small, in lateral view not attaining level of upper and lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.35-1.50. Antenniferous tubercles situated at level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, barely exceeding middle of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with short adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3-2.5:2.3-2.5:2.0-2.3. Rostrum with long hairs, not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments I: 1.2-1.3:0.6. Neck dark, lighter laterally and below. Pronotum of general body color, smooth, trapezoidal, carinate laterally, only very slightly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe only faintly convex, without discal and lateral tubercles, slightly granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, submedian carinae not attammg hind border. Humeri rounded, slightly elevated. Anterolateral angles very little pronounced, rounded. Scutellum with central portion depressed, limited by distinct carinae. Apical process rugose, short, about half as long as main body of scutellum, subconical, its apex deflected. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium of general body color, slightly lighter on area adjacent to clavus, and on apical half of the latter; membrane smoky brown. Legs unicolorous, short and stout; fore femur 3.4-3.8 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two pairs of denticles subapically. Tibiae without spongy fossulae, in either sex. Venter convex or very slightly flattened. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of irregular, shallow, transversal wrinkles. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by several times their diameter . Connexivum twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. Entire abdomen of general color, intersegmental connexival sutures almost imperceptibly lighter.
Triatoma petrochii@Triatoma petrochii Pinto and Barreto Figures 137-139 Triatoma petrochii Pinto and Barreto, 1925, p. 769. Sherlock and Guitton, 1967, p. 625, figs. 1-8. Lucena, 1970, p. 75. Espinola, 1971, p. 278, figs. 5-7. Eutriatoma petrochii: Pinto, 1931, p. 95. figs. 40-42. Length of male 17. 0-21. 5 mm , of female 18-23 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 3.5-5.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 6-8 mm, of female 6-9 mm Overall color dark brown, with yellowish markings on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument appearing glabrous, only with very sparse, short, inapparent setae. Head uniformly dark, slightly rugose and granulose, somewhat over twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45) and unusually elongate as compared to pronotum (1:0.70-0.75). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides from very faintly rounded to almost straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus widened slightly behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering or pointed apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.0( o), 1:2.5 ( c;>). Antenniferous tubercles situated at or slightly before middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment appearing unusually short, extending only slightly beyond half the distance from its base to apex of head, viz., falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment sybcylindrical, with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3 .3-4.2:2.3-2.8:2.1-2.5. Rostrum slender, practically glabrous, except for group of long hairs at apex of third segment. First segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second approaching level of hind margin of eyes. Second segment slightly and third segment strongly flattened dorsoventrally, appearing very thin in lateral view. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.8:1.1-1.2. Neck dark, with a pair of light colored spots laterally. Pronotum very sparsely granulose, dark brown, yellow on collar, on discal callosities and in some cases on lateral margins of anterior lobe, on entire submedian carinae and on humeral area. Anterior lobe with discal tubercles reduced to suboval transverse callosities; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeri narrowly rounded, almost angular. Scutellum rugose, dark brown, with shallow central depression. Posterior process almost entirely yellow, about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal, rounded apically. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite. Corium dark brown, with irregularly shaped large light yellow markings basally and subapically; entire costal margin narrowly yellow. Membrane yellowish white, lighter than yellow areas of c rium. Veins of membrane narrowly dark brown; cells of membrane with conspicuous dark spot of variable extension, centered on vein separating cells. Legs uniformly dark, femora in some specimens slightly lighter at middle. Legs slender; fore femora 6-7 times as long as wide. Femora either only slightly salient below subapically, or with one or two inconspicuous denticles. Spongy fossulae absent m both sexes. Abdomen slightly flattened below in male and more distinctly so in female. Venter delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Venter dark brown, but spiracles enclosed in small yellow area confluent with corresponding yellow spots of connexivum. Connexivum dark brown, segments on disc with large yellowish spot occupying two-thirds of surface of each segment, approaching but not adjoining posterior and remote from anterior intersegmental suture. Both dark and light areas occupying entire width of connexival segments, light areas shortly extending on respective urosternite.
Triatoma phyllosoma@Triatoma phyllosoma (Burmeister) Figures 140-142 Conorhinus phyllosoma Burmeister, 1835, p. 246 Meccus phyllosoma: StAI, 1859, p. 105 Meccus phyllosomus: StAl, 1872, p. BO. Banks, 1910, p. 18. Van Duzee, 1917, p. 247 Triatoma phyllosoma: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 890Mazzoni, 1937, p. 161, figs. I, 2. Usinger, 1944, p. 58, pl. 10, fig.B. Usinger, Wygodzinsky and Ryckman, 1966, p. 310, fig.18. Length of male 26.5-38.0 mm, of female 29.0-39.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.5-7.3 mm; width of abdomen of male 12.0-14.5 mm, of female 11.5-18.5 mm Body unusually wide, with short and narrow wings. Overall color from dark brown to black, with red or orange-red markings on corium and connexivum. Setae numerous, most delicately hairlike , up to 0.5 mm in length. Head black, faintly transversally rugose along center above, not granulose, with numerous stiff black setae. Head about twice as long as wide (1:0.4-0.55) and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.90- 0.95). Anteocular region from two and one-half to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3-0.4); postocular with sides subparallel, very slightly rounded. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded distally, attaining or very rarely surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in most cases not attaining, very rarely slightly surpassing level of under surface and invariably distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.1 in male, 1: 1. 9-2 .4 in female, viz. , eyes of female generally smaller than those of male. Antenniferous tubercles short, situated slightly behind middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending slightly but distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2.9:1.8-2.2:1.5-2.0. Rostrum with first segment dark brown or black, second and third segments dark or light reddish brown. First rostral segment attaining level of middle of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of neck. Rostral segments stout, sybcylindrical, with short, sparse setae, only third segment with not very dense hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.5-1.8:0.5-0.6. Neck laterally with I+ I reddish spots. Pronotum black, strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with numerous long erect hairs pointing in several directions. Anterior lobe with elevated areas pilose, remaining surface smooth, dull. Discal tubercles large, pilose. Lateral tubercles well developed although somewhat smaller than discal ones. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose, transversely between carinae, more irregularly so on lateral portions. Submedian carinae not extending beyond basal two-thirds of length of posterior lobe. Humeri distinctly elevated; humeral angles rounded, narrowly explanate. Anterolateral projections large, elongate conical. Scutellum with median depression distinct but shallow and narrow; posterior process two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal or slightly elevated obliquely, rounded distally and with extreme apex declinate in some cases. Mesosternum and metasternum with long erect hairs. Hemelytra and wings short and narrow, leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Hemelytra extending in most males and some females only to apex of urotergite V and in most males and some females to urotergite VI but not beyond. Corium with numerous long (0.3-0.4 mm) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black, with one basal triangular and one subapical subquadrate spot red or orange-red. Clavus black. Membrane sooty or velvety black. Legs black, elongate; fore femora 6.0-7.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two subapical denticles, in some individuals barely perceptible. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, more irregularly so on lateral portions, and with numerous semierect hairs. Setae of visible portion of dorsal surface of abdomen short. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to several times their diameter . Connexivum unusually wide , black, connexival plates posteriorly with red or orange-red markings extending over entire width of segment, their shape varying from transverse band-shaped to subtriangular, with apex of triangle directed cephalad. Male genitalia with apex of lateral endosoma process heavily denticulate .
Triatoma picturata@Triatoma picturata U singer Figures 143, 144 Triatoma sp. Mazzotti, 1939a, p. 197, fig.I Triatoma picturata Usinger, 1939, p. 47, Mazzotti, 1940a, p. 98, pl. 2, fig.2. Islas, 1941, p. 311, pis. 1-4 Triatoma phyllosoma picturata: Usinger, 1944, p60, pl. 10, fig.F. Length of male 30.5-32.0 mm, of female 32-33 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5-7.0 mm, of female 7.0-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 12-14 mm, of female 12-15 mm Body unusually wide . Overall color dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on neck, hind lobe of pronotum, propleura, occasionally on apex of scutellum, and extensively on corium. Setae numerous, adpressed, short (0.1-0.2 mm on corium, 0.2- 0.3 mm on pronotum.) Head black, faintly rugose dorsally along center, not granulose, with stiff decumbent setae. Head about twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.5), and from slightly longer than to as long as pronotum (1:0.85-1.0). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides very slightly convex, almost straight, subparallel. Clypeus narrow, distinctly but shortly widened subbasally. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, in some cases pointed, attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.5-2.15. Antenniferous tubercles short, situated slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment attaining or shortly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3-2.5:2.0-2.15:1.9. Rostrum as dark as head capsule, its segments narrowly subcylindrical. First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of hind border of head. Rostral segments with very short setae, only third segment with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5-1.7:0.5-0.6. Neck dark, laterally with pair of orange red spots. Pronotum moderately constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with adpressed setae not longer than 0.3 mm Overall color of pronotum black, with orangered areas of varied extension, from almost entirely occupying hind lobe to restricted to portion laterad of submedian carinae. Discal tubercles prominent, from blunt to pointed. Lateral tubercles well developed although smaller than discal ones. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose transversally. Submedian carinae extending over anterior two third of posterior lobe. Humeri slightly elevated, rounded. Anterolateral projections large, elongate conical. Scutellum with median depression shallow but distinct, narrow; posterior process two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal or slightly elevated, rounded distally. Scutellum dark, in some specimens distal half of posterior process reddish orange. Pleura and stema dark, but hind portion of propleura orange colored. Meso and Metastemum with long semierect hairs. Hemelytra fully developed, but leaving in most specimens entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed, due to the unusually wide abdomen. Hemelytra of male attaining or closely approaching hind border of urotergite VII, those of female not extending beyond basal third of urotergite VII. Corium with decumbent or adpressed very short setae (0.1-0.2 mm), its overall color dark brown to black, with one large subtriangular basal and one irregularly shaped subapical mark orange-red. Clavus uniformly dark brown. Membrane black. Legs as in phyllosoma. Fore femur 5.6-6. 7 times as long as wide. Venter convex, delicately and shallowly striate transversally, more irregularly so on lateral portions, and with numerous long semierect hairs. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by several times their diameter . Connexivum yellowish or reddish orange, in most specimens examined dorsally with subrectangular black spot on anterolateral portion of each connexival segment, adjoining outer but distant from inner connexival margin . In other specimens, dorsal black connexival spot connected to inner connexival margin by less intense dark area , and in others black spot and adjoining dark area extending posteriorly so as to occupy more than one-half of length of respective connexival spot invariably occupying entire width of connexival plate . Posterolateral angles of urosternites and occasionally urotergites invaded by yellowish orange area adjoining orange portions of connexival segments.
Triatoma platensis@Triatoma platensis Neiva Figures 145, 146 Triatoma platensis Neiva, 1913b, p. 197. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 891, pl. 47, fig.2. Pinto, 1931, p. 78, fig.20. Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 174. Romana and Abalos, 1947, p. 83, figs. 1-5 (part), unnumbered plate. Wygodzinsky, 1949, p. 338. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 62, figs. 37, 42, 48, 59, 82-101. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 75, fig.33. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 42. Triatoma rosenbuschi Mazza 1936a, p. 6, figs. 1-5; 1936c, p. I, figs. 2-7. Mazza and Jorg, 1944d, p. 47, figs. 1-3. Length of male 22-24 mm, of female 22.5-26.0 mm Width of pronotum of male and female 6-7 mm, of abdomen of male 7.5-8.5 mm, of female 8-9 mm Robust, heavily sclerotized species. Overall color dark brown, matte, with yellowish markings on neck and connexivum. Pilosity golden colored, adpressed, elongate scalelike, very dense on most body areas. Head dark reddish brown, very densely pilose dorsally and laterally, setae forwardly directed; surface sparsely granulose. Head comparatively slender in lateral and dorsal view, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.60-0.65), and slightly shorter than pronotum (l:l.l-1.2). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3), postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus strongly widened behind middle. Genae pointed, heavily sclerotized distally, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Apex of jugae angular, also heavily sclerotized. Head dorsally with transverse impression at base of clypeus and of jugae. Eyes in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlip- i sis l:l.5-2.0. Ocelli inserted on conspicuous l protuberances. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second and third antennal segments compressed; second with adpressed setae, much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.4:2.6-2.8:1.5-1. 7. Rostrum as dark as head. Setae of rostrum very short on first and part of under surface of second segment; distal portion of under surface and entire upper surface of second as well as entire third segment dorsally, laterally, and ventrally with very dense setae much longer than diameter of segment, longest at base of third segment, progressively decreasing in length towards apex of rostrum. First segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not quite reaching level of apex of antenniferous tubercles. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-2.0:0.9-1.1. Neck dark brown, with 1 + 1 lateral yellow spots. Pronotum brown, matte. Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal and 1 + 1 lateral tubercles densely covered with adpressed setae as are other elevated areas of fore lobe. Posterior lobe irregularly wrinkled and densely beset with backwardly directed adpressed setae. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, humeral area elevated. Anterolateral projections short, conical, laterally directed. Scutellum heavily rugose; central depression glabrous or with scattered setae, remainder densely setose. Base of scutellum with a pair of submedian, prominent projections, overlapping declivous portion of posterior margin of pronotum. Posterior process of scutellum about three-fifths as long as main body of sclerite, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, narrow at apex, rounded distally. Hemelytra closely approaching, attaining or slightly surpassing apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus and corium distinctly setose. Hemelytra of general body color. Corium tinged with light yellow, sparsely spotted with dark. Membrane irregularly mottled with dark, dark pigment elements coalescing into large dark spot straddling vein separating membranal cells. Legs uniformly dark reddish brown, stout; fore femora from four to five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in female. Setae of legs numerous, short, those of tibiae not longer than half the diameter of article . Venter prominently convex, feebly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, coarsely striate transversally. Setae numerous, backwardly directed. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture . Color of venter and connexivum dark brown. Connexival segments dorsally and ventrally each with medially constricted transverse yellow mark on posterior half of segment, distant from intersegmental suture. Development of spots varied, in some cases spots divided into two.
Triatoma protracta@Triatoma protracta (Uhler) Figures 22A; 14 7, 148 Conorhinus protractus Uhler, 1894, p. 284 Triatoma protracta: Neiva, 1914a, p. 58. Readio, 1927, p. 118. Pinto, 1931, p. 79, figs. 25-28 Usinger, 1944, pl. l, figs. D, E.; pl. 6; pl. 12, fig.B Triatoma protracta protracta: Ryckman, 1962, p. 110, pl. l, figs. A. B; pl. 2, fig.W Triatoma protracta woodi Usinger, 1939, p. 42; 1944, p. 73, pl. l, fig.F; pL 12, fig.A. Ryckman, 1962, p. 113, pl. l, figs. C, E, F; pl. 2, figs. K, 0Triatoma protracta navajoensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 114, pl. l, fig.D Triatoma protracta zacatecensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 115, pl. l, fig.H, pl. 2, figs. I, J Triatoma protracta nahuatlae Ryckman, 1962, p.115, pl. 2, fig.M. Length of male 13.0-19.5, of female 15-23 mm; width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0, of female 3.5-5.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 5.0-5.5, of female 5.0-8.5 mm Color either from piceous to black, with intersegmental connexival sutures light, and membrane in . some cases light gray, or from light to dark brown, with connexival sutures as above or with entire connexivum from slightly to distinctly lighter than rest of abdomen. Head granulose and slightly rugose, distinctly convex above, about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.45- 0.55), and about as long as pronotum. Anteocular region slightly less than three times as long as postocular (1:0.34-0.4), postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, strongly widened on posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate transverse impression at base of clypeus. Genae narrowly tapered apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head evenly convex above, but in side view with slight although distinct depression at level of base of clypeus. Head not salient ventrally behind eyes. Eyes in lateral view attaining levels of upper or lower surface of head. Eyes comparatively small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:3 .25-3 .60. Antenniferous tubercles situated at level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, barely exceeding middle of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with short, adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2. 70-2.95:2.20-2.55:1. 95- 2.30. Rostrum with short hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second segment, uniformly long on third segment, but not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third. First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.15-1.30:0.50. Neck dark, light colored anterolaterally. Pronotum from light brown to black, smooth, carinate laterally, trapezoidal, only very slightly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe only slightly elevated, without discal or lateral tubercles, slightly granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, submedian carinae almost attaining hind margin; humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles very short, inconspicuous, rounded apically. Scutellum with central portion depressed, limited by distinct carinae. Apical process about half as long as main body of scutellum, subconical, faintly depressed dorsoventrally, its pointed apex deflected. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, their color from brownish in light colored to almost black in dark specimens, in some cases membrane lighter than corium, and the latter with faint light-colored subapical spot; rarely center of corium darker than rest of hemelytra. Legs short and stout; fore femora from four to five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with two pairs of denticles. Tibiae of both sexes without spongy fossulae. Venter rounded or slightly flattened, irregularly wrinkled transversally. Hairs of venter inconspicuous. Spiracles close to connexival suture . General color of abdomen as on rest of body, from light reddish brown to black; intersegmental sutures of dark specimens in most cases narrowly yellow . Brownish forms frequently with connexivum contrastingly very light brown or yellow , in other specimens concolorous with urostemites.
Triatoma pseudomaculata@Triatoma pseudomaculata Correa and Espinola Figures 149, 150 Triatoma pseudomaculata Correa and Espinola, 1964, p. 116, figs. 3, 4, 7, 8, 11-14. Lucena, 1973, p. 176 (pro parte). Galviio, 1973, p. 371, fip.Th,W,Th,To,......M. Length of male 17 -19 mm , of female 19-20 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.8 mm, of female 4.5-5.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5-7.0 mm, of female 6.5-7.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with yellow or orange-red marks on neck, thorax, corium, and connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head uniformly dark brown or black, less high in lateral view than in maculata, delicately granulose, especially at sides. Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6-0.7), and as long as pronotum (l:1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.30-0.35), postocular with sides rounded but strongly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened behind middle. Genae tapering or pointed apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae wide-angled apically. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of under and almost attaining level of upper surface of eyes. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.l-1.4. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus, second slightly compressed, with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:4.0-4.8:2.4-3.6:1.8-2.6. Rostrum dark as head capsule, relatively slender (as compared to T maculata). Setae of rostrum short and sparse on first and second segments but very numerous and longer on third, although not quite as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.4-3.l:l.O-l.l, viz., first segment as long as or slightly shorter than third. Neck with I+ 1 lateral yellow or orange spots. Pronotum not distinctly granulose, its overall color from dark brown to black, with variable yellowish or orange-red pattern elements. Discal and lateral tubercles of fore lobe yellowish. Posterior lobe dark, with three pairs of yellow or reddish spots, one pair anterosublateral, one humeral and one posteromedian, the latter in many cases reduced in size, or obsolescent. Anterosublateral and humeral spots either separated or fused, in the latter case forming a single lateral spot on each side. Anterolateral projections light colored. Anterior lobe of pronotum with distinct discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely wrinkled. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, humeral area distinctly elevated. Anterolateral projections (149, 150C) prominently conical, in some cases elongate subtriangular as in maculata, in most specimens seen somewhat shorter, subconical. Pleura dark, in most individuals propleura with light spot at posterior margin, in some specimens absent. Mid and hind acetabula spotted with light color in occasional specimens. Scutellum entirely dark, coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression; sides of scutellum swollen. Posterior process subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal but apex slightly upturned, obliquely truncate in lateral view. Hemelytra almost attaining or in some males slightly surpassing apex of seventh urotergite. Overall color of hemelytra dark brown or black. Clavus dark at base, yellowish on apical two-thirds. Corium with subbasal and subapical spots yellow or reddish. Membrane either black and as dark as dark portions of corium, or fumose, brown, distinctly lighter than dark portion of corium, and with veins conspicuously dark. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femur 5.0-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown, in some specimens irregularly clouded with yellowish brown; small lateral area enclosing spiracles yellow. Connexivum light yellow or reddish orange, with wide transversal black bands across entire width of connexival segment, on intersegmental sutures. Light-colored areas of connexivum about as large as dark ones. Male genitalia with endosomal processes denticulate apically.
Triatoma pugasi@Triatoma pugasi Lent Figures 151-153 Triatoma pugasi Lent, 1953b, p. 316, figs. 2-4. Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Length of male 24.0-24.5 mm, of female 24.0 mm, width of pronotum of male 6.5 mm, of female 6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 10.0 mm, of female 9.5 mm Overall color dorsally light orange-brown or yellowish brown, with head, antennae, membrane, legs, and venter darker. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Setae very short and sparse. Head dorsally faintly rugose and distinctly granulose; dark reddish brown with 1 + 1 submedian black lines on dorsum. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region about two and onehalf times as long as postocular (1:0.40-0.45); postocular with sides slightly convex, somewhat converging toward behind. Clypeus widened posteriorly, not strongly elevated. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view distinctly surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5 (o), 1:2.1 (<.?). Ocelli small, their diameter equal to or smaller than their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first very small, falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:4.4-4.8:2.7:2.0. Rostrum with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of middle of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.30:0.35. Pronotum uniformly orangebrown. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated portions, with 1+ I obsolescent discal but without lateral tubercles. Hind lobe coarsely rugose, slightly granulose. Submedian carinae very short, evanescent at middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly explanate and elevated. Anterolateral angles with short subtriangular forward directed projections. Scutellum orange-brown, its central depressed portion rugose, limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process of scutellum less than half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, narrowly subconical. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male, reaching to posterior margin of seventh urotergite in female. Corium light yellowish brown, extensively brown fumose on basal half and at extreme apex. Membrane darker than dark portions of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2+2 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with small spongy fossulae, the latter present in females only on fore tibiae. Venter slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in male and more strongly so in female, with flattened portion not distinctly separated from lateral convex area. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of meandering and labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Connexival segments with conspicuous oblique rugosities. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark reddish brown. Connexivum light brown, not spotted.
Triatoma recurva@Triatoma recurva (Stil) Figures 154, 155 Conorhinus recurvus StAI, 1868, p. 124. Triatoma recurva: Neiva, 1914a, p. 59. Lent, 195lc, p. 156, figs. 1-3. Triatoma longipes Barber, 1937b, p. 86. Usinger, 1944, p. 57, pl. l, fig.I; pl. 5, pl. 9, fig.H. Triatoma longipes nigricollis Usinger, 1944, p. 57. Triatoma recurva nigricollis: Ryckman and Ryckman, 1967b, p. 383. Length of males 25.5-30.0 mm, of females 29-33 mm; width of pronotum of males 5.5-7.0 mm, of females 6.0-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of males 8.5-10.5 mm, of females 11.0-13.5 mm General color from piceous to black, in some cases hind lobe of pronotum slightly lighter colored; connexivum orange-yellow along outer margin. Setae short and sparse, inconspicuous. Head narrow, rugose transversally along middle on dorsum, faintly granulose, slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45), and longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.35), postocular with sides straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus very narrow, gradually widened behind its middle. Genae pointed apically, falling short of apex of clypeus. In side view, eyes approaching but not attaining level of upper surface but extending below level of lower surface of head. In dorsal view, ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis l: 1.4-1. 7. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region, without apical spiniferous process. First antennal segment falling short of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with decumbent setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3-3.5:2.4-2.7:2.1-2.3. Rostrum slender, first and second segments with very short, sparse setae, third with a few long hairs. First segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1.8:0.5. Neck light colored laterally. Pronotum with sides conspicuously constricted at level of transversal sulcus. Anterior lobe with halves distinctly convex, delicately granulose, with 1 + 1 discal tubercles and 1 + 1 less well developed but still perceptible lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose, submedian carinae not attaining posterior margin of pronotum. Humeri narrowly rounded. Anterolateral angles shortly conical, rounded apically. Scutellum heavily rugose, with central portion only slightly depressed; apical process elongate cylindrical, almost as long as disc of sclerite, horizontal, its apex slightly tapering, from horizontal to slightly downward bent. Hemelytra uniformly dark, those of male attaining or slightly surpassing apex of abdomen, those of female only attaining base or at most middle of urotergite VIII. Hemelytra narrow compared to wide abdomen, in females leaving lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Legs slender and elongate, only with short sparse setae. Fore femora 7.5-10.0 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 larger and occasionally 1 + 1 smaller subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of males with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Abdomen convex below. Venter delicately striate transversally; setae inconspicuous. Spiracles very close to connexival suture, their distance from suture equal to once or twice their diameter. Connexivum wide, in many specimens strongly reflexed. Connexivum dark, with orange-yellow outer margin dorsally and ventrally, this margin in many specimens wider toward posterior portion of each segment; light color in some cases slightly extended mesad along intersegmental connexival sutures.
Triatoma rubida@Triatoma rubida (Uhler) Figures 156-158 Conorhinus rubidus Uhler, 1894, p. 285. Triatoma rubida: Neiva, 1914a, p. 59. Readio, 1927, Conorrhinus rubrofasciatus: Champion, 1899, p. 208, pl. 12, fig.22 (nee DeGeer) Triatoma uhleri Neiva, 19lla, p. 421; 1914, p. 66. Readio, 1927, p. 124. Conorhinus uhleri: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 494. Eutriatoma uhleri: Pinto, 1931, p. 102, figs. 45-48. Triatoma rubida uhleri: Usinger, 1944, p. 66, pl.I, fig.J; pl. 2; pl. II, fig.F. Triatoma mexieana Neiva, 1912, p. 21 (nee HerrichSchaeffer). Eutriatoma mexieana: Pinto, 1931, p. 92, fig.38. Conorhinus rubrofasciatus var. mexieana: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 492. Triatoma oeellata Neiva, 1914a, p. 55. Pinto, 1931, Triatoma sonoriana Del Ponte, 1930, p. 900, fig.14. Triatoma rubida sonoriana: Usinger, 1944, p. 66, pl. II, fig.I. Triatoma rubida jaegeri Ryckman, 1967, pl. 1. Triatoma rubida eoehimiensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 1. Length of male 15.5-20.0 mm, of female 19.5-23.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.5 mm, of female 5.0-5.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5-6 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm Overall color from light reddish brown to dark reddish brown or black, with light markings from deep red to orange-red and yellow, on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum; pronotum and corium in some cases entirely dark. Setae inconspicuous, short, sparse. Head rugose, not perceptibly granulose, uniformly dark, only slightly elevated between eyes; as long as pronotum, and distinctly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.60-0.75). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.35-0.40), postocular with sides rounded. Eyes in lateral view distinctly surpassing level of under surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.20-1.75. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with short, stiff, decumbent hairs. Ratio of antennal segments l:2.9-3.3:2.4- 2.9:2.4-2.5. Rostrum stout, with short setae except at apex of second and base of third segment where there are very long, dense hairs. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.0-2.3:0.8-0.9. Neck yellowish on anterior, dark on posterior half. Pronotum dark, with sides, posterior margin, humeral angles and anterolateral processes light colored, with in some cases several or all of these regions dark. Anterior lobe not granulose, smooth, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose, with submedian carinae almost attaining hind border. Humeral angles rounded, npt elevated. Anterolateral angles outwardly directed, very short, rounded apically. Scutellum dark, rugose, central depression shallow, limited by narrow ridges. Scutellar process only slightly shorter than main body of scutellum, narrowly cylindrical or somewhat compressed laterally, its apex widened or not, slightly declinate. Hemelytra extending close to apex of abdomen. Corium dark, rarely unicolorous, in most cases with large triangular area at base, most of costal margin, and small subapical spot, light colored. Legs uniformly dark. Femora of first and second pair with 1 + 1 small denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen uniformly dark except connexivum, sharply flattened below longitudinally along middle in both sexes, flattened portion bordered by sharp, posteriorly converging carinae . Surface microsculpture consisting mostly of delicate transverse striations. Spiracles close to connexival suture. Connexival segments dark on disc, pale along intersegmental sutures and along outer margin ; in some cases dark area extending to connexival border or almost so, leaving only intersegmental sutures light colored.
Triatoma rubrofasciata@Triatoma rubrofasciata (De Geer) Figures 4A-D; 68; 8A; 11, 12A; 13, 18, 198; 21, 29D, L; 159-162 Cimex rubro-fasciatus De Geer, 1773, p. 349, pl. 35, fig.12 Conorhinus rubrofasciatus: Amyot and Serville, 1843, p. 384, pl. 8, figs. 2, 2a. Stal, 1859, p. 106. Distant, 1904, p. 285, fig.189Triatoma rubrofasciata: Breddin, 1905, p. 146. Neiva, 1914a, p. 30. Larrousse, 1924a, p. 63, fig l. Pinto, 1930, p. 210, pl. 4; 1931, p. 81, figs 1-6, 29. Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 175; 1941, p 84, figs. 5, 13. Gillett, 1934, p. 4. Lent, 1943a, p. 246, figs. 6-8. Usinger, 1944, p. 64, pl. 9, fig A. Abalos and Wygodzinsy, 1951, p. 74, figs 35, 53, 119-132Cimex variegatus Drury, 1773, p. 109, pl. 45, fig.5 Reduvius (Conorhinus) variegatus: Westwood, 1837, p. 103, pl. 45, fig.5 Conorhinus variegatus: Stal, 1872, p. Ill (pro parte) Triatoma variegata: Neiva, l914a, p. 68 Reduvius gigas Fabricius, 1775, p. 729; Wolff, 1802, p. 119, pl. 12, fig.113 Cimex gigas: Gmelin, 1788, p. 2195 Nabis gigas: Latreille, 1804, p. 257 Triatoma gigas: Laporte, 1833, p. 11 Conorhinus gigas: Laporte, 1832, p. 77. HerrichSchaeffer, 1848, p. 72, pl. 271, figs. A, B, pl. 272, figs. 841-842 Cimex claviger Gmelin, 1788, p. 2179 Cimex erythrozonias Gmelin, 1788, p. 2181 La Punaise-Mouche de Surinam, Stoll, 1788, p. 55, pl. 13, fig.85 Reduvius giganti Klug in Meyen, 1834, p. 412 Conorhinus stalii Signoret, 1860, p. 967 Conorhinus limbatus Schouteden, 1907, p. 287 (nomen nudum)Triatoma rufofasciata Van Duzee, 1916, p. 29, 1917, p. 248 Triatoma evandroi Figueiredo, 1938, p. 20. Length of male 19.5-24.0 mm, of female 20-25 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 4.5-6.0 mm, of abdomen of male 6.5-9.0 mm, of female 7-10 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with yellowish and orange-red markings on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Dorsal surface conspicuously granulose. Setae short, inapparent. Head heavily granulose dorsally, uniformly dark, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1: 1.1). Anteocular region about 2.5 times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under surface but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.9-2.2. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment distinctly projecting beyond apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.8-4.0:2.2-2.6:1.6-1.9. Rostrum with abundant pilosity, hairs short on first and basal half of second segment, becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, but not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1.7:0.6. Neck uniformly yellowish dorsally. Pronotum dark brown or black, with sides and anterolateral processes reddish, in some cases also collar light colored; occasionally, red color invading central portion of hind lobe of pronotum. Anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum conspicuously granulose. Anterior lobe without discal or lateral tubercles. Lateral margins of pronotum only slightly indented at level of transverse constriction. Posterior lobe from very faintly to distinctly rugose transversally, most conspicuously so on central portion between sublateral carinae; the latter evanescent befre posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded, slightly elevated. Anterolateral angles short, subconical, or narrowly rounded apically. Prostemum and meso and metapleura granulose .. Scutellum of general body color but in some cases with apex of process reddish, rugose-granulose, with distinct median depression limited by posteriorly confluent carinae. Posterior process conical, subtriangular, strongly tapering from wide base to point, about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum. Hemelytra variable in length, in most specimens reaching only to basal portion or at most to middle of seventh urotergite, but in some males attaining apical portion of said urotergite. Corium granulose, from dark brown to black, its entire outer margin delicately bordered with orange-red. R + M and free portion of R enclosed in a wide reddish fascia extending to base of membrane, then sharply inwardly bent and extending along base of outer membranal cell. Membrane fumose, slightly lighter than dark portions of corium. Legs uniformly dark, relatively short and stout, with fore femur about five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with two to four obsolescent denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in females. Venter flattened longitudinally along middle, more conspicuously so in females; flattened portion not sharply delimited from lateral convex area. Hairs of venter very short, golden colored. Surface of venter with very irregular miscrosculpture, from delicately striate transversally to minutely meandering or labyrinthine . Spiracles of variable position, either adjacent to connexival suture or remote from latter by once or twice their own diameter. General color of abdomen from dark brown to black; spiracles orange. Connexival segments dark, their outer border and intersegmental sutures orange-red. Female genital region strongly projecting posteriad.
Triatoma rubrovaria@Triatoma rubrovaria (Blanchard) Figures 163-165 Conorhinus rubro-varius Blanchard in Blanchard and Brulle, 1843, p. 219, pl. 29, fig.7. Still, 1859. p 113 Triatoma rubrovaria: Neiva, 1913b, p. 196. Larrousse, 1924a, p. 66, fig.2. Del Ponte, 1930, p 894, figs. 12a, b, pl. 44, fig.3. Talice, Costa, Rial and Osimani, 1940, p. 43, pl. 1. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. IOI, figs. 44, 57, 194-208. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 62, pl. 2, fig.1Eutriatoma rubrovaria: Pinto, 1931, p. 98, fig.37Lent, 1942, p. 222, figs. 1-30. Neiva and Lent, 1943, p. 52, pl. 2Triatoma (Eutriatoma) rubrovaria: Lima, 1940, p200. Mazza, Talice and Ji:irg, 1942, p. 25, figs 14-34, pl. 2Conorhinus phyllosoma Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p 70, pl. 2, fig.837 (nee Burmeister) Conorhinus rubroniger Still, 1859, p. 114 Triatoma gomesi Neiva and Pinto, 1923d, p. 86. Eutriatoma gomesi: Pinto, 1931, p. 53, fig.34. Triatoma bruchi Mazza and Jorg, 1944a, p. 3, figs1-7. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 107, fig 209 (new synonymy). Length of male 21-24 mm, of female 22-25 mm, width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.5 mm, of female 4.5-7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.5-8.5 mm, of female 8-12 mm Overall color black, with red, orange, or rarely yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Integument sparsely granulose; setae short, sparse, integument appearing glabrous. Head long and slender, black, delicately rugose transversally on dorsum, faintly granulose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.5) and slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3); postocular with sides very faintly convex. Clypeus narrow, gradually and only slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view slightly surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.4-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment flattened, with numerous adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3 .8-4.5:3 .2:2.6. Rostrum as dark as head capsule or with second and third segments reddish. Setae of rostrum short, except at apex of second and on third segment where setae are about as long as diameter of segment, decreasing in length toward apex of last segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of jugae, second attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.5:1.1-1.4. Neck dark, with pair of light-colored lateral spots. Pronotum with anterior lobe invariably black; posterior lobe rarely entirely black or entirely red, in most specimens with area between submedian carinae, with carinae included, black to a varied degree . Collar and anterolateral tubercles from red to black. Anterior lobe of pronotum with elevated portions smooth, shining; with I+ I weak discal elevations which are not distinct tubercles; lateral tubercles not developed. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly rugose; submedian carinae extending to posterior fourth of hind lobe, evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded, humeri slightly elevated. Anterolateral projections short and blunt. Scutellum entirely dark, convex, heavily rugose, basal projections obsolete. Central depression shallow. Posterior process of scutellum short, about two-fifths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, broad at base, cylindrical on apical portion, its apex rounded. Propleura entirely dark or with red spot of varied size adjacent to hind margin of sclerite. Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite in males and in some females, in other females not projecting beyond middle of seventh urotergite. Corium black, with basal and subapical light-colored spot of variable size, spots connected by narrow lightcolored line along margin of hemelytron. Membrane brown, fumose, somewhat lighter than dark area of corium. Veins of membrane only very slightly darker than membrane. Legs uniformly dark, slender; fore femora from six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small denticles subapically, femora of third pair slightly salient below subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Abdomen very wide in some specimens , with lateral areas of urotergites exposed. Venter convex, faintly flattened longitudinally along middle in females. Integument of venter delicately striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously setose. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from latter by not more than their diameter. Venter black. Connexivum black, each segment with large central red or orange spot attaining external margin of segment. Dorsally, posterior portion of light connexival spot attaining connexival margin; ventrally, light spot extending shortly onto adjacent lateral portions of urosternites so as to include spiracles.
Triatoma ryckmani@Triatoma ryckmani Zeled6n and Ponce Figures 166-167 Triatoma ryckmani Zeled6n and Ponce, 1972, p. 276, fig.I. Female. Length 20.0-20.5 mm; width of pronotum 4.5 mm, of abdomen 7 .0-7 .5 mm Dark brown on dorsum of head, on thorax and on hemelytra; yellowish brown on entire under surface as well as on corium, the latter spotted with dark. Setae of body surface short, black, adpressed, but longer and semierect on under surface of thorax and on abdominal urosternites. Head heavily rugosegranulose dorsally and laterally, smooth below along middle, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and slightly shorter than pronotum (l:1.1). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0.4); postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow, with short abrupt swelling on basal third. Genae with inner margin light colored, their apex pointed, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. In lateral view, eyes close to level of upper surface of head, and attaining level of lower surface. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.5. Antenniferous tubercle situated at level of center of anteocular region, with distinct apicoextemal setiferous projection. Antennal segments I and II dark brown. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with short, decumbent setae only. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-3.5:2.2-2.6:2.1-2.6. Rostrum slender, with very short hairs only. First rostral segment almost attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind margin of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.6-2. 7:1.0. Head dark brown, smooth, central portion of under surface and anterior portion of neck, light yellow brown. Pronotum dark brown, light to varied degree on sublateral carinae, borders of posterior and ridges of anterior lobes. Sides of pronotum strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe elevated, granulose but not forming distinct tubercles with ridges prominent. Posterior lobe heavily granulose, its lateral margin carinate; humeri rounded, sublateral carinae approaching posterior margin. Anterolateral angles short but distinct, broadly subconical. Scutellum with central depressed portion heavily rugose, limited by broad carinae; at its base 1 + 1 conspicuous submedian tubercles, overlapping posterior border of pronotum. Posterior process over half as long as main body of scutellum, cylindrical, its apex rounded or subtruncate, slightly elevated. Color of scutellum uniformly dark brown. Thoracic stema, acetabula, and part of pleura yellowish brown, remainder of pleura contrastingly dark brown. Thoracic stema with long, semierect hairs. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, appearing narrow compared to wide abdomen, leaving entire connexivum and narrow lateral portion of urotergites exposed. Clavus, most of corium and entire membrane dark brown; base of corium, its entire external margin narrowly as well as preapical spot, brownish yellow. Legs stout, fore femora 4.0-4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two pairs of denticles followed by one or two rows of small setiferous tubercles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae. Coxae, trochantera, and basal two-thirds or three-fourths of femora yellowish, apex of femora with tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Venter conspicuously flattened below along middle; flattened portion limited laterally by 1 + 1 distinct carinae converging medially at base of third and at middle of seventh segment. Venter with irregular transverse wrinkles and numerous long, semierect hairs. Spiracles close to connexival suture . Connexival segments very wide dorsally and wider than usual for the genus ventrally . Setae of under surface of connexivum restricted to outer half of each segment . Urosternites yellowish brown; genital area dark brown. Connexival segments yellowish, with central transversal dark spot of varied size and intensity .
Triatoma sanguisuga@Triatoma sanguisuga (Leconte) Figures 26A; 168, 169 Conorhinus sanguisuga Leconte, 1855, p. 404. Walsh and Riley, 1869, p. 87, fig.74. Marlatt, 1896, p. 38, figs. 10-12. Kimball, 1896, p. 128. Howard, 1900, p. 28, figs. 22-24. Triatoma sanguisuga: Kirkaldy, 1907, p. 156. Neiva, 1914a, p. 63. Van Duzee, 1916, p. 29; 1917, p. 248. Blatchley, 1926, p. 554, fig.135. Readio, 1927, p. 120. Froeschner, 1944, p. 652, fig.86. Usinger, 1944, p. 67, pl. 11, fig.C. Mead, 1965, p. 1, figs. 1, 2. Olsen, 1966, p. 1. Conorhinus lateralis StAl, 1859, p. 107. Conothinus variegatus Sti\\l, 1872, p. 111 (nee Drury). Triatoma sanguisuga ambigua Neiva, 1911a, p. 422. Usinger, 1944, p. 68, pl. 11, fig.B. Triatoma ambigua: Davis, McGregor and Shazo, 1943, p. 353. Triatoma pintoi Larrousse, 1926, p. 138, fig.2; Del Ponte, 1930, p. 913, fig.17. Triatoma sanguisuga texana Usinger, 1944, p. 69, pl. 11, fig.A. Length of male 15.5-22.0 mm, of female 20.5-23.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male and female 4.0-5.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5.5-8.0 mm, of female 6-9 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with orange-red or yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, hemelytra and connexivum. Pilosity inconspicuous, most distinct on under surface of abdomen and on legs. Head granulose, uniformly dark, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and very slightly shorter than pronotum (l:l.05). Postocular region distinctly rounded in dorsal view. Anteocular region somewhat more than twice as long as postocular (l:0.45). Eyes in side view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface of head, remote from level of upper surface. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.65-2.10. Antenniferous tubercles situated on posterior third of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling slightly short of apex of clypeus; second segment with short hairs only. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-3.5:2.3-2.8:2.0-2.5 Rostrum with sparse, very short setae only; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.0:0.5. Neck reddish or dark with l + l lateral spots reddish. Pronotum with fore lobe slightly granulose; discal tubercles very low or imperceptible; lateral tubercles missing. Hind lobe rugose, with humeral angles rounded, slightly elevated. General color of pronotum dark brown to black, with lateral margins from orange-red to yellowish, the light area in many cases extending onto humeral disc and on collar including anterolateral angles. General aspect of pronotum thus characterized by dark disc contrasting with light-colored anterior and lateral borders as well as lateral portions of hind margin, bordered by reddish line of varied width. Scutellum rugose with irregular delicate carinae limiting central depression; apical process sybcylindrical, not quite as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, apex rounded and slightly declinate. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium with sparse, short, inconspicuous setae; basal triangle reddish orange or yellowish, a large central area dark brown and extending over entire width of corium, a smaller subapical spot orange-red or yellowish, extreme apex of corium dark; clavus dark on basal, light brown on apical half. Legs uniformly dark; femora of first and second pairs with 1 + 1 pointed denticles subapically. Fore femur 4.3-4.9 times as long as wide. Tibiae of first and second pairs of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. General color of abdomen uniformly dark; ventrally with abundant pilosity and delicately striate transversally. Spiracles close to but not contiguous with connexival suture. Connexival segments dorsally and ventrally dark, with the posterior third or fourth orange-red or yellowish, the light color extending briefly onto urosternites.
Triatoma sinaloensis@Triatoma sinaloensis Ryckman Figures 170, 171 Triatoma sinaloensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 118, pl. 2, fig.L. This species is so similar to T peninsularis that a detailed redescription is not necessary. Triatoma sinaloensis is slightly smaller than peninsularis (males 10.3-11.5 mm, females 10-4-12.5 mm), the overall color is from light to dark reddish brown, and the body surface is highly polished. The slight difference in head shape may also be of taxonomic importance.
Triatoma sinica@Triatoma sinica Hsiao Figures 172, 173 Triatoma sinica Hsiao, 1965, p. 197, fig.I. Length of male 22 mm, of female 24 mm; width of pronotum of female 6 mm, of abdomen 9.5 mm Female (male not examined). Overall color dark brown to black, with yellowish or reddish markings on pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body integument highly polished; pilosity very short and sparse. Head including clypeus and genae heavily rugose transversally on dorsum and only slightly granulose; dark reddish brown, with sides black dorsally. Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.7), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4), postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus elevated in lateral view, rather broad on anterior portion, basal third abruptly widened. Genae tapering but not pointed apically, slightly but distinctly surpassFIG. 172. Triatoma sinica, female, paratype. A. General aspect. B. Anterior portion of insect, dorsal view, higher magnification. ing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in side view surpassing level of lower and not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1: 1. 7. Ocelli large, their diameter greater than their distance from hind border of eyes. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black. First segment slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus and of genae; second about five times as long as first, only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments ( calculated from measurements given by Hsiao, 1965) 1:4.6:2.9:2.4. Rostrum with short hairs except on apex of second and on third segment, but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second reaching level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.4-1.6:0.5. Neck entirely yellowish dorsally. Pronotum highly polished. Anterior lobe with smooth areas dark brown or black, elevated areas yellowish brown. Lateral margins of pronotum with humeri, as well as collar with anterolateral processes light colored. Posterior lobe black, with submedian carinae, a median band arising at transversal sulcus and attaining posterior margin of pronotum, and 1 + 1 sub lateral spots at posterior margin, reddish brown. Pronotum trapezoidal, with sides not constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe not granulose; submedian carinae of posterior lobe short, not extending beyond middle of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly explanate. Anterolateral angles short, rounded or angular apically. Pleura heavily rugose, dark, with acetabula slightly lighter. Scutellum dark, with central depression and posterior process rugose, yellowish brown. Posterior process about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, its apex rounded. Hemelytra approaching apex of abdomen. Corium dark, with small orange-colored narrow subbasal spot and subapical Ushaped spot. Costal margin narrowly yellow. Membrane smoky brown, lighter than dark portion of corium. Legs uniformly dark brown, stout; fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 3-4 small setiferous denticles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae (possibly present in male). Abdomen wide, with lateral portions of urotergites not completely covered by hemelytra. Venter distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, flattened portion not sharply separated from lateral convex portion. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or separated from same by distance less than diameter of spiracle. Pilosity of venter inapparent. Venter dark reddish brown; connexivum pale yellow, faintly tinged with pink. Each connexival segment at center with irregular shaped transverse black spot wider at outer than at inner margin of segment.
Triatoma sordida@Triatoma sordida (Stlll) Figures 174-176 Conorhinus sordidus StAI, 1859, p. 108. Triatoma sordida: Chagas, 1912, p. 306. Neiva, 1914a, p. 35. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 901, pl. 44, fig.2. Mazza and Jorg, 1944e, p. 51, figs. 1-5. Wygodzinsky and Abalos, 1950, p. 63, figs. 3, 48, D, G; 6K, N; 80-F; 98, C, F. H. K, M; 11. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 79, figs. 39, 46, 61, 133-149, 176-178. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 39, pl. 1, fig.I. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 44, fig.25. Eutriatoma sordida: Pinto, 1931, p. 100, figs. 43, 44. Mazza and Jorg, 1938, p. 26, figs. 1-7, pl. 1. Triatoma garciabesi Carcavallo et al., 1967, p. 44, figs. I, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 43, pl. 1, fig.4. (new synonymy). Length of male 14-19 mm, of female 15-20 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 4-5 mm, of abdomen of male 6.5-7.0 mm, of female 7-8 mm Overall color from light to (rarely) dark brown, with pale yellow areas on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, legs, connexivum, and in some specimens, venter. Integument beset with short, sparse setae. Head brown, with anteocular area yellowish; head rugose and granulose, heavily so on sides before and behind eyes. Head slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55-0.60), and from as long as to slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.85-1.0). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.30-0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded, converging toward behind. Clypeus very narrow, slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering or rarely pointed apically, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae yellowish, subangular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under and approaching but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:0.75-1.20. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment subcylindrical, beset with numerous inclined setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:2.5-3.6:2.5- 2.8:1.7-2.0. Rostrum as dark as head capsule, or, more frequently, with some or all segments very light yellowish brown. Setae of rostrum very short, a few slightly longer ones on apical segment, these setae not longer than diameter of segment. First rostral segment very short, not quite extending to level of apex of jugae, second attaining level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.4-2.9:1.1-1.4. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum sparsely granulose, brown, in most specimens with anterolateral processes and elevated areas of anterior lobe including tubercles yellow; humeri invariably with yellow mark. Anterior lobe with distinct discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe strongly wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to hind border of pronotum. Humeral angles narrowly rounded, faintly angular. Anterolateral projections of pronotum small but salient, narrowly rounded apically. Scutellum coarsely rugose; central depression well developed. Color of scutellum dark brown except apical portion of posterior scutellar process yellow. Scutellar process large, about three-fourths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, slightly tapering apically, obliquely truncate distally in lateral view. Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. General color of hemelytra from light to very dark brown. Corium with triangular basal spot yellow, and with apex also yellow, or not, or corium entirely yellowish with only veins on apical two-thirds of corium conspicuously darkened. Membrane fumose, from light to very dark brown, veins darker than cells, especially distal two-thirds of Cu separating membranal cells, this portion of vein narrowly bordered with dark. Legs with coxae and trochantera pale yellow, in some specimens with faint brownish spots. Femora yellow, with subapical annulus dark. Tibiae brown, darkest at apex, and with small light-colored annulus at base. Legs relatively slender, fore femora 4.6 to 5.4 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of stout denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in females. Venter convex, feebly flattened in some specimens of either sex, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles variable in position, from adjacent to cormexival margin to distant from latter by twice their diameter. Venter either entirely brown except narrowly at sides, or suffused to greater or lesser extent with yellow. Connex - ivum yellow, light-colored areas briefly extending on urotergites and urostemites including area of spiracles. Connexivum dorsally with transverse black marks, viz., a narrow black line along intersegmental sutures, expanded on connexival margin into a large spot; in some specimens, a wider and rather uniform black transverse stripe straddling intersegmental suture. Under surface of connexival segments yellow, with small dark spot straddling intersegmental suture adjacent to outer margin; transversal markings invariably absent on ventral portion of connexivum.
Triatoma spinolai@Triatoma spinolai Porter Figures 6E, G; SC; 208, C; 228; 177-180 Triatoma spinolai Porter, 1934, p. 192; 1939, p. 124, pl. 8. Gajardo, 1939, p. 35, figs. 1, 2. Neiva and Lent, 1940b, p. 355, figs. 1, 4, 5. Lent and Jurberg, 1967, p. 273, figs. 1-42Triatoma chilena Usinger, 1939, p. 45 Mepraia spinolai: Mazza, Gajardo and Jorg, 1940, p. 3, figs. 1-27. Mazza, Jorg and Gajardo, 1941, p. 3, figs. 3-7, 13-17, 20-24. Gajardo, 1954, p 117Triatomaptera porteri Neiva and Lent, 1940a, p266; 1940b, p. 357, fi--gs. 2, 3, 6; 1943, p 62, figs. 2, 3, 6, pl. 3Sexually dimorphic species; males macropterous, brachypterous, or micropterous; females micropterousMacropterous male . Length 18-22 mm, width of pronotum 3.5-5 mm, of abdomen 4.8-6.5 mm Overall color dark brown, connexivum and part of adjacent sclerites red. Dorsal body surface shortly pilose; antennae, rostrum, legs, and under surface of body with long hairs. Head very dark, transversally rugose dorsally, weakly granulose, narrowly cylindrical, apical portion (from level of apex of antenniferous tubercles to apex) conspicuously compressed laterally; under surface of head with scattered long hairs. Head approximaely twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50), and much longer than pronotum (l:0.65-0.80). Anteocular region three to four times as long as wide (l:0.25-0.30); postocular with sides very feebly rounded, almost straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened at apex and gradually so on posterior third. Genae narrowly rounded apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, blunt apically. Eyes in side view attaining or surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.40-1.75. Ocelli large, their length equal to their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment slender, almost glabrous, extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with very numerous semi-erect ciliate hairs about twice as long as diameter of segment, and less numerous scattered elongate bristles from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment; similar hairs and bristles on third and fourth segments. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.9:3:2.2. Rostrum of same color as head. First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second extending to slightly behind level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments slender, the second compressed dorsoventrally; first and second with hairs approximately as long as diameter of segments, but longer than diameter on third segment. Hairs not dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2-2.8:0.6-0.7. Neck lighter than head, with l + l very faint lateral spots yellow. Pronotum subtrapezoidal, uniformly dark, although somewhat lighter than remaining parts of body. Anterior lobe deeply sculptured and granulose, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe delicately rugose and wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, conical. Scutellum subtriangular, its surface from rugose to almost smooth, conspicuously elevated, and with median depression from small to indistinct. Posterior process of scutellum extremely small, subconical, only from one-sixth to one-eighth of length of main body of scutellum; its apex horizontal or upturned. Mesostemum limited posteriorly by prominent transverse straight ridge; metasternum longitudinally carinate along middle posteriorly . Hemelytra attaining or surpassing apex of abdomen by up to two mm, their color uniformly dark brown. Hind wings as illustrated . Legs uniformly dark, unusually long and slender, especially third pair. Fore femora from 8 to IO times as long as wide. Femora inermous. Fore and mid tibiae with spongy fossulae. Femora and especially tibiae and tarsi in addition to normal hairs with others several times as long as diameter of article. Setae of posterior tarsus shown in figure 1808. Venter convex, minutely striate transversally, and with delicate elongate semierect setae most numerous on posterior segments, in preserved speciments examined appearing carinate longitudinally along middle. Spiracles close to but not adjoining connexival suture. Ventral connexival plates hinged to dorsal sclerites; dorsal connexival plates fused to urotergites . Connexivum red, either entirely so, or especially dorsally, each connexival plate on disc with black spot , variable in size, attaining or not lateral margin of sclerite. Red color extending to a varied degree to urostemites, especially along intersegmental suture . Spiracles enclosed in light spot. Male genitalia as usual for genus, but lateral endosoma process large and foliaceous, appearing permanently everted . 8rachypterous male. Similar to macropterous male, but hemelytra and wings abbreviated , only attaining fifth or sixth urotergite, their venation complete. Micropterous male and female . Length of male 17.5-19.0 mm, of female 19.5-21.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 3 mm, width of abdomen of male 5.2-6.0 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm Overall color black, with red markings on abdomen. Pilosity as in winged form. Head dark , somewhat lighter laterally and ventrally. General structure of head as in winged form; head approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45) and almost twice as long as pronotum (1:0.5- 0.6). Anteocular region close to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3); postocular with sides almost straight, subparallel. Clypeus, genae, and jugae as in winged form. Eyes small, in side view from slightly to considerably distant from level of lower surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.7-2.1 in male, 1:3.3-3.8 in female. Ocelli small, their length equal to half their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercle and first antennal segment as in winged form. Second antennal segment of male with long bristles and ciliate hairs, the latter less numerous than in macropterous male, in female only with long bristles; setae of third and fourth segments of both sexes as in winged male. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.6-4.1:3.1- 3.3:2.0. Rostrum as in winged form . Pronotum much reduced in size, subquadrate, posterior lobe about as long as anterior. Anterior lobe conspicuously convex; elevated ridges delicately granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose and wrinkled; submedian carinae conspicuous, occupying three-fourths of length of hind lobe; disc of posterior lobe depressed between carinae and between carinae and lateral margins. Posterior margin of pronotum rounded; lateral borders of posterior lobe emarginated. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral comers as in winged form. Scutellum situated on semicircular sclerite, subtriangular, wider than long, heavily rugose, with an ill-defined, narrow median longitudinal impression, this depression in some specimens imperceptible. Posterior process of scutellum obsolescent. Hemelytra reduced to small suboval sclerites not extending beyond hind margin of mesonotum; veins absent, but claval suture perceptible. Hind wings reduced to minute pads , all but their extreme apex covered by hemelytra. Legs of male and female as in winged form; legs of male longer than those of female. Legs of female without spongy fossulae. Venter convex, appearing carinate in preserved males examined, not flattened below in well-preserved females. Surface of urotergites and urostemites with extremely fine transverse striation, coarser on seventh urotergite of male and seventh and eighth urotergites of female. Anterolateral portion of urostemites delicately chagrine. Spiracles as in winged form. Structure of connexivum of male as in winged form. In female dorsal connexival plates fused to urotergites, with vestigial connexival suture perceptible in some cases. Ventral connexival plates of female narrow, hinged to dorsal plates but separated from lateral portion of urostemites by large membranous area. Connexivum red, with variable black markings as in winged form, red color extending to a varied degree to urotergites and urosternites along intersegmental sutures. Dorsal intersegmental sutures separating urotergites reddish in many specimens. Anterior urotergites in some cases reddish at center. Genitalia of male as in winged form .
Triatoma tibiamaculata@Triatoma tibiamaculata (Pinto) Figures 181-183 Eutriatoma tibiamaculata Pinto, 1926a, p. 134, figs. C-E; 1931, p. IOI, figs. 30, 39. Triatoma (Eutriatoma) tibia-maculata: Lima, 1940, p. 199, fig.383. Triatoma tibiamaculata: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 902, fig.2. Lent, 1943a, p. 242, figs. 1-5. Correa, 1954, p. 5, figs. I, 2. Borba and Luz, 1972, p. 58. Length of male 29-30 mm, of female 32.0-33.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 7.0-7.5 mm, of female 7.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male IO. 0-IO. 5 mm, of female 11.0-12.5 mm Overall color black, with red and light orange-brown markings on neck pronotum, scutellum, corium, legs, and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse, inconspicuous. Head black, slightly granulose-punctate, conspicuously rugose laterally. Head twice as long as wide (l:0.5), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (l: 1.0-1.1). Clypeus elongate, slightly widened behind middle. Genae blunt apically, falling distinctly short of apex of clypeus. Jugae small, narrowly angular, apical portion diverging from surface of cephalic capsule. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l: 1.3-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles located behind center of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment with apex very close to level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous short adpressed setae and other, decumbent ones as long as or slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.7-3.0:2.4-2.7:1.7-1.8. Rostrum black; first segment falling short of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment extending to level of posterior limit of neck. Rostral segments subcylindrical, with short setae, except on third segment with not very numerous setae as long as diameter of article. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.6:0.4- 0.6. Neck black, with pair of lateral orangebrown spots. Pronotum black, with bright red markings on tubercles and forming narrow stripes. Anterior lobe with l + l discal and l + l lateral red tubercles; submedian carinae beginning immediately behind discal tubercles, extending close to posterior margin of sclerite, red, with red stripes continuing to hind border of sclerite, their ends connected by transversal red stripe along hind border. Lateral carinae of pronotum undulate, bordered with red from anterolateral processes to humeral angles. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral processes of pronotum prominent, subconical, red. Pleura and stema black, propleura light colored along hind margin. Scutellum black, apex of posterior process contrastingly red; median depression shallow, narrowly subtriangular. Posterior process of scutellum two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, rugose, conical, wide at base, rounded-obtuse apically. Hemelytra extending to or closely approaching posterior border of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium light orangebrown, in some cases basally tinged with red, and with elongate wide black markings along some veins and in cells. Base of clavus and part of its outer margin dark. Membrane fumose, brownish, veins black. Legs black on coxae, trochantera and femora, the latter with short apical annulus yellowish, similarly colored on extreme base extending in some specimens to trochanter. Tibiae light yellowish brown, their apex annulate with black. Legs long and slender; fore femora from seven to eight times as long as wide. Femora without subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, only on fore tibiae in females. Venter convex, not distinctly flattened, delicately striate transversally, with very short, sparse setae. Spiracles close to or adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown, spiracles yellowish. Connexivum marked with black and light yellowish brown or reddish brown. Anterior two-thirds of each connexival segment dark, posterior third light; connexival sutures separating dark and light areas.
Triatoma venosa@Triatoma venosa (Stal) Figures 184, 185 Conorhinus venosus Stal, 1872, p. lll. Triatoma venosa: Neiva, 1914a, p. 70. Lent, 1950, p. 437, fig.I. Marinkelle, 1972, p. 15. Eutriatoma venosa: Pinto, 1931, p. 104. Length of male 18.5 mm, of female 22 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5 mm, of female 5.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 6.5 mm, of female 9.0 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with head and legs reddish brown and yellowish or orange-red markings on thorax, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument rugose, granulose on some areas. Setae slender, short, golden colored1 not conspicuous. Head delicately rugose, reddish brown, dorsally with l+ l black stripes extending from level of base of clypeus to ocellar tubercles, enclosing median longitudinal granulose band. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.5), and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.33), postocular with sides very faintly rounded, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, elongate, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae rounded distally, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in side view attaining level of lower but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.4. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first very short, not extending beyond basal two-thirds of gena. Second antennal segment with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-3.3:2.8-2.9:1.8. Rostrum dark brown, darker than reddish head capsule, with short, inconspicuous setae. First rostral segment short, not extending beyond level of center of gena; second segment very long and slender, attaining level of hind border of head; third as long as or longer than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.2-3.5:1.0-l.l. Neck uniformly reddish brown. Pronotum black, with orange-red markings. Anterior lobe with one central reddish spot extending from collar to transversal furrow, and 1 + l sublateral shorter markings. Posterior lobe with elongate red markings, one central and 1+ 1 sublateral, all extending from transverse furrow to posterior border of pronotum. Lateral and posterior margins of pronotum bordered with red except area of submedian dark markings which extend to hind border. Anterolateral angles red. Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal but without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose and slightly granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections shortly subcylindrical, rounded apically. Scutellum black, heavily rugose, its posterior process red, stout, two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, rounded-truncate apically. Pleura black, with extensive reddish or yellowish areas. Hemelytra reaching apex of abdomen. Clavus, corium, and membrane black, with veins conspicuously yellowish and bordered with yellow. Base of corium with Vshaped marking extending onto subbasal portion of clavus. Apex of corium yellowish red. Cells of membrane unicolorous. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur about six times as long as wide. Femora faintly granulose as sides and below; femora of all pairs of legs subapically with two or three unusually large denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen rounded below, minutely striate transversally. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Pilosity of venter inconspicuous, delicate, ad pressed. Venter dark brown, spiracles yellowish. Connexivum black, with narrow transversal yellowish red markings straddling intersegmental sutures, with red area occupying anterior segment larger than that on posterior segment.
Triatoma vitticeps@Triatoma vitticeps (Stal) Figures 86; 186-188 Conorhinus vitticeps Stal, 1859, p. 109 Triatoma vitticeps: Neiva, 1914a, p. 71. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 905, pl. 53. Pinto, 1931, p. 62, fig.9 Triatoma chagasi Brumpt and Gomes, 1914, p. 75, fig.1Triatoma holmbergi Del Ponte, 1923, p. 66; 1925, p28, pl. I, fig.BTriatoma chagasi var. holmbergi: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 865, pl. 42, fig.1Triatoma neivai Del Ponte, 1923, p. 66; 1925, p. 30, pl. I. fig.CTriatoma chagasi var. neivai: Del Ponte, 1930, p867, pl. 42, fig.2. Length of male 27.5-33.0 mm, of female 28.5-38.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 7-8 mm, of female 7 .0-8.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 10. 0-13. 5 mm , of female 10.0-14.5 mm Overall color very dark brown tending toward black, with reddish brown or orange-red markings on head, neck, pronotum, pleura, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Pleura and under surface of thorax and abdomen dull. Pilosity short and sparse. Head dark brown, dorsally along center with reddish brown band extending from level of ocelli to clypeus. Head feebly rugose and granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0.6) and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1-1.2). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus abruptly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, attaining or slightly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae pointed apically, terminal portion toothlike, in some cases diverging from surface of head capsule. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.9-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly beyond middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second article with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3 .0-3 .2:2.2-2. 7:1. 9-2.0. Rostrum as dark as head capsule; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment extending to or beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical; dorsal surface of second and third segments, and under surface of apical third or half of second, and entire third segment with dense long hairs, many longer than diameter of respective segment. Remainder of rostrum with sparse short hairs. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-1.9:0.8. Neck dark brown, with a pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum dark brown, with reddish pattern elements. Anterior lobe faintly granulose, with 1 + 1 small, low, reddish discal protuberances; in some specimens, lateral tubercles in shape of low protuberances also perceptible. Posterior lobe rugose. Submedian carinae relatively short, evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Posterior lobe of pronotum dark brown, with three pairs of reddish brown markings; 1 + I on lateral portion of lobe extending to humeral angles; 1 + 1 sublateral markings lateral of submedian carinae extending for whole length of posterior lobe, and I+ I shorter submedian markings separated medially only by central longitudinal sulcus of posterior lobe. Size of reddish markings variable, in some cases more extended than described above, partly confluent; in some specimens almost entire anterior lobe reddish, or pronotum with entire lateral and posterior margin narrowly bordered with red. Anterolateral projections reddish brown, large, truncate or subconical, slightly flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum rugose and faintly granulose, dark brown, with central depression wide, reddish. Posterior process of scutellum about as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal, with apex rounded and slightly elevated. Propleura posteriorly with reddish spot of variable extension, in some cases occupying almost entire pleura. Anterior acetabula variously marked with reddish. Hemelytra in most specimens attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite, only rarely slightly shorter. Color of hemelytra dark brown, darkest at center of corium and at base of membranal cells. Corium with light markings basally or subbasally or both, subapically, and in some cases also narrowly along costal margin. Portion of Cu in corium and portions of veins enclosing basal half of inner membranal cell very light colored and bordered with light. Membrane fumose, dark brown. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femora slender, six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of welldeveloped denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae with spongy fossulae in both sexes. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, and with short setae. Spiracles adjoining or very close to connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown, except small light spots enclosing spiracles. Connexivum extensively dark brown, disc of segments with yellowish or light orange-red transverse markings distinctly smaller than dark areas; light markings coming closer to posterior than to anterior intersegmental sutures. Yellow markings of under surface of connexivum in some cases smaller than corresponding ones on dorsal surface.
Triatoma williami@Triatoma williami Galvao, Souza and Lima Figures 189, 190 Triatoma williami Galvao, Souza and Lima, 1965, p. 363, fig.I. Galviio, Souza and Lima, 1967, p. 400, figs. Travassos Filho, 1972, p. 263, fig.1. Galviio and Fuentes, 1971, p. 141, figs. 1-3. Length of male 25.0-25.5 mm, of female 26-28 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5 mm, of female 6 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.5-9.0 mm, of female 10.0-10.5 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with yellow markings on neck, hemelytra, and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse. Head black, delicately rugose and granulose, approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50), and distinctly longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides straight, distinctly converging posteriorly. Clypeus elongate, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.25-l.45. Antenniferous tubercles located at center of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.9- 5.1:3.2:? Rostrum as dark as head or lighter brown; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior margin of eyes. Rostrum slender, with short hairs except on third segment where hairs are as long as diameter of segment although not very dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3-2.6:l.O-l.05. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellowish spots. Pronotum entirely black. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not granulose, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, conical, subacute apically. Scutellum uniformly dark, with shallow median depression; posterior process shortly subconical, not more than half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, wide at base, very narrowly rounded apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite in both sexes. Clavus dark at base and along outer margin. Corium light yellowish brown with veins dark, in some places veins also bordered with dark. Membrane fumose, grayish brown, darker than light colored areas of corium; veins of membrane conspicuously dark. Legs uniformly dark, long and slender. Fore femora 7-8 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, not distinctly so in male, delicately striate transversally, with sparse, very short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Abdomen wide, extreme lateral portions of urotergites exposed, not covered by hemelytra . Urosternites dark brown, except minute yellow spots enclosing spiracles. Connexivum pale yellow, segments with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment, and dorsally but not ventrally darkened along connexival suture.
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@Triatoma wygodzinskyi Lent Figures 191-193 Triatoma wygodzinskyi Lent, l95lb, p. 349, figs. l-3. Length of male 19. 0-19. 5 mm, of female 19-20 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.0-6.5 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm Overall color black, with reddish markings on neck, humeral region of pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head black, rugose anterolaterally, granulose dorsally, less than twice as long as wide (l:0.6) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides rounded and converging toward behind. Clypeus long and narrow, only slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in side view considerably surpassing level of lower and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus; second antenna) segment 4.5 times as long as first (remaining not preserved). Rostrum from reddish brown to black. Second and third segments somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, slender in lateral view. Rostrum appearing glabrous, except third segment with numerous distinct but short hairs. First segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not reaching to apex of antenniferous tubercles; second attaining level of hind margin of eye. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.4:1.0. Neck dark, with pair of very small reddish spots laterally. Pronotum black, with distinct reddish spot on each humeral region, and, in some specimens, with large spot on disc between carinae posteriorly. Anterior lobe not granulose, without discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled; submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections prominent, conical, not flattened -dorsoventrally. Scutellum with distinct median depression. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about three-fourths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal with apex slightly upturned, distally rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Process uniformly dark. Hemelytra extending to apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium dark brown, with extensive areas subbasally, subapically and at center, reddish. Base of clavus also reddish, its remainder light brown. Membrane fumose, light brown, lightest at base; veins distinctly darker than cells. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femora 5-6 times as long as wide. Femora of fore and mid legs with a pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened in female, delicately striate transversally, sparsely beset with short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites uniformly dark, except minute light colored spot enclosing spiracles. Connexival segments with central two-thirds occupied by light red spot extending across entire width of segment, thus transverse narrow black band straddling intersegmental suture. Male genitalia with endosomal processes not over half as long as phallosoma, weakly sclerotized, their apices with about 20 teeth .
ERATYRUS STAL@ERATYRUS STAL Eratyrus Stal, 1859, p. 103. Pinto, 1931, p. 131 Usinger, 1944, p. 37. Lent and Jurberg, 1970, p. 297. Triatomini. Large sized (23-29 mm). Body not conspicuously flattened. Overall color dark, with few pattern elements. Head and thorax not granulose, with short setae only. Head elongate, narrowly cylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head. Rostrum as long as head, slender, extending to level of prosternum; first and second segments elongate, although first not quite as long as second; third very short, without rostral organ. Antennae unusually long, reaching to basal portion of membrane when bent backward. Anterior lobe of pronotum with conspicuous discal tubercles or spines, but without lateral tubercles. Humeri with spinelike processes. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellum with unusually long process, as long as or longer than main body of scutellum, reflexed, acute. Hemelytra with corium (except cell adjoining clavus) covered with conspicuous short erect bristles. Femora armed with series of small denticles. Spongy fossulae present in males. Abdomen with connexival segments normally developed. Venter flattened longitudinally along middle. Female genitalia elongate, pointed. Male genitalia with vesica strongly sclerotized. Fifth instar nymph: As described for tribe; fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first and second segments elongate, third short, without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen semimembranous, not granulose, dorsally with series of five prominent median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum attaining prosternum, slender, first segment slightly over half as long as second; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Eratyrus cuspidatus@Eratyrus cuspidatus Stal Figures SH, 194, 195A-G, I Eratyrus cuspidatus Stal, 1859, p. 103. Usinger, 1944, p. 37, pl. 8, fig.A. Lent and Jurberg, 1970, p. 306, figs. 4-9, 17-20, 23-24, 29-32, 37-38, 45-50, 58-64. Conorhinus cuspidatus: Walker, 1873b, p. 14. Length of male 24-27 mm, of female 25-31 mm; width of thorax of male and female 5-6 Spanish version of key, p. 479; Portuguese version, p. 496. mm; width of abdomen of male 7-8 mm, of female 8-10 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with sides of neck and abdominal venter yellowish; corium with reddish mark subapically. Integument not granulose, setae of dorsal surface numerous, short. Head of general color, its integument smooth, with numerous short strong bristles. Head two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.40-0.45) and from distinctly to slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.75-0.95). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.35); postocular relatively short, ratio width to length 1:0.5-0.6, its sides distinctly rounded. Clypeus narrow, slightly swollen on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral aspect attaining level of lower and closely approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.65. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined bristles, shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments l:4.0- 4.5:3.75-4.05:3.15-3.45. Rostrum of same color as head capsule, slender, segments subcylindrical. Setae of rostrum short, scattered, about as long as diameter of second segment on its apical half, on third segment longer than its diameter. First rostral segment extending to or slightly beyond middle of distance from antenniferous tubercle to anterior margin of eye. Second rostral segment slightly longer than first, extending to base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.IOl.15:0.30-0.35. Neck yellowish at sides, dark at center above. Pronotum with numerous short stiff bristles. Ridges of anterior lobe low but conspicuous. Discal tubercles low, rounded apically, occasionally almost imperceptible. Posterior lobe irregularly and shallowly rugose throughout. Submedian carinae attaining posterior margin of sclerite, inwardly curved apically. Humeri salient, angulate but not spined . Scutellum transversally rugose, with shallow median depression; remainder of scutellum only faintly rugose. Inclination of scutellar spine variable; angle fonned by spine and surface of hemelytra varying from 30 to 50 degrees. Hemelytra covering entire length of abdomen, but leaving genitalia of female exposed. Hemelytra dark brown or black, darkest on corium; clavus, cell adjoining clavus, and membrane all fumose, dark brown; corium black, with relatively large subapical reddish spot, attaining or surpassing level of mcu cross- vein . Legs strong, elongate, fore femur 5.5-6.8 times as long as wide. Fore femora with double row of 4-6 minute setigerous tubercles, more conspicuous in male than in female; mid and hind femora without distinct denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen dark, with center of dorsal and ventral surface pale yellow. Venter convex, distinctly and abruptly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes. Urosternites delicately and shallowly striate transversally, with numerous fine decumbent hairs. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by a distance equal to once or twice their diameter. Connexivum uniformly dark, almost twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. Genitalia of male as shown in figure 195E, G; free portion of vesica convex in side view . Genitalia of female in dorsal view as shown in figure 1951.
Eratyrus mucronatus@Eratyrus mucronatus Stil Figures 13B; 140; 22E; 24M; 29G; 30F; 196-198 Eratyrus mucronatus StAI, 1859, p. 103. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 70, fig.18. Lumbreras, 1960, p. 214, figs. 1, 2. Lent and Jurberg, 1970, p. 304, figs. 2, 3, 10-16, 21-22, 25-28, 33-36, 39-44, 51-57. Conorhinus mucronatus: Walker, 1873b, p. 14. Length of male 23-27 mm, of female 25.5-29.0 mm, width of thorax of male and female 5.0-5.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.0-7.5 mm, of female 8.0-8.5 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with sides of neck and underside of abdomen yellowish; corium with reddish mark subapically. Integument not granulose; setae short. Head of general color, its integument not granulose or rugose, with scattered stout bristles. Head two and onehalf times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.75- 0.80). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular relatively elongate, ratio width to length 1:0.6-0.7; its sides faintly convex, slightly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, somewhat swollen on posterior half. Genae tapering apically but not pointed, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral aspect attaining level of upper and of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis widely variable, 1:0.80-1.45. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment beset with short inclined bristles shorter than diameter of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.6-5.0:3.6-3.9:2.9-3.2. Rostrum dark reddish brown, slightly lighter than head capsule, slender, segments subcylindrical. Setae of rostrum very short and comparatively sparse, except third segment with setae longer than its diameter. First rostral segment extending to middle or beyond middle of space between antenniferous tubercle and anterior margin of eye. Second segment of rostrum from slightly to distinctly longer than first, extending to level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.05- 1.25:0.25-0.35. Neck yellowish at sides, dark above at center. Pronotum with anterior lobe almost smooth, ridges poorly developed. Discal tubercles in shape of short or long acutely pointed spines, when elongate curving slightly backward. Posterior lobe irregularly wrinkled throughout, with submedian carinae extending very closely to posterior margin of pronotum, their apical portion mediad curved. Humeri with distinct suberect spinelike projections of varied length but invariably shorter than spines of anterior lobe. Anterolateral projections of pronotum large, prominent, elongate subconical but not spinelike. Scutellum with shallow median transversely rugose impression, remainder of scutellum glabrous. Inclination of scutellar spine extremely variable, angle formed by spine and hemelytra varying between 30 and 60 degrees. Hemelytra covering entire abdominal length, but leaving genitalia of female exposed. Hemelytra of general dark color, with subapical reddish spot on corium relatively small, not attaining anteriorly level of m-cu cross vein . Legs strong, elongate; fore femur 5.7-6.3 times as long as wide. Fore femora with double row of 6-7 small setiferous denticles on apical half below; mid and hind femora with one or two similar denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen dark, but center of dorsal and ventral surface pale yellow. Venter convex, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle in both sexes although more conspicuously so in female. Urosternites delicately and very shallowly striate transversally, with delicate decumbent hairs. Spiracles close to connexival suture, separated from latter by distance not larger than their diameter. Connexivum uniformly dark, almost twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. Genitalia of male with free portion of vesica flattened or slightly concave in lateral view .
Linshcosteus Distant@Linshcosteus Distant , 1904, p. 287. Pinto, 1931, p. 134. Usinger , 19 3 9 , p. 35. Neiva and Lent , 1941, p. 69. Ghauri, 1976, p. 183. Cenaeus Pinto, 1925a , p. 88 (nee Stll ). Triatomini. Medium sized (17-28 mm). Body conspicuously flattened. Overall color black. Head and thorax densely beset with setiferous granules; setae short and inconspicuous. Head elongate subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated before middle of anteocular region of head. Rostrum abbreviated, shorter than head, not extending to level of prosternum. First and third rostral segments short, second elongate. Third segment without rostral organ. Fore lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles. Humeral angles not spined. Prosternum without stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar spine subconical, narrowly tapering apically. Legs with femora unarmed; spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Abdomen very wide; lateral portions of urotergites exposed, not covered by hemelytra. Dorsal and ventral connexival segments normally developed. Venter of abdomen conspicuously flattened longitudinally along middle. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; rostrum abbreviated, not extending to level of neck, first segment much shorter than second, third segment without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus absent; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally with series of well-developed median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum abbreviated, not attaining level of neck; stridulatory sulcus absent; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Linshcosteus carnifex@Linshcosteus carnifex Distant, 1904, p. 287, fig.190. Pinto, 1927, p. lll, fig.11; 1931, p. 135, fig.70. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 74, figs. 11, 12. Ghauri, 1976, p. 184 (part), figs. l, 2 . Cenaeus carnifex: Pinto, 1925a, p. 88, figs. 57, 58 (nee Fabricius). Female holotype . Length 25.5 mm; width of pronotum 5.6 mm, of abdomen 10 mm Overall color dark brown or black. Pilosity short, inconspicuous. Head with numerous low setiferous tubercles, except narrowly along middle below. Head over twice as long as wide (1:0.4) and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7). Anteocular region five times as long as postocular (l:0.2); postocular with sides slightly rounded, widest at middle, and only slightly convex below. Clypeus strongly widened on posterior half, not conspicuously elevated in lateral aspect. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view extending close to level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.60-1.85. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. Setae of rostrum not examined. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; third segment extending close to but not attaining level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.25:0.60. Pronotum black, its sides not carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated, ridges granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, granulose, with submedian carinae extending backward to slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles prominent, very narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical, blunt apically. Scutellum black, coarsely rugose, its center faintly depressed; posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of eighth urotergite. Corium black; membrane fumose, dark brown, veins yellowish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 8.5 times as long as wide. Abdomen as described for L. costalis.
Linshcosteus chota@Linshcosteus chota, new species Figures 22C; 201-203 Linshcosteus carnifex: Ghauli, 1976, p. 184 (part), figs. 3, 4, 14, 19, 22. Male holotype. Length 17.5 mm; width of pronotum 3.9 mm, of abdomen 6.3 mm Overall color reddish brown (probably faded from dark brown or black). Pilosity short, black. Head with numerous small, low setigerous granules except narrowly along middle ventrally. Head over twice as long as wide (l:0.4) and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7). Anteocular region five times as long as postocular (1:0.2); postocular with sides feebly rounded, widest at middle, very faintly convex below. Clypeus strongly widened on posterior half, unusually elevated in lateral apsect. Genae narrowly tapering apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae narrowly tapering but not pointed apically. Eyes in side view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.6. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of first two antennal segments 1:4.8; remaining not preserved. Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter on first and most of second segment, as long as or longer than diameter at apex of second and on third segment. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of an tenniferous tubercle; second not attaining level of anterior border of eyes, third extending to level of posterior margin of eyes. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.8:0.55. Pronotum with sides carinate. Anterior lobe more strongly convex than in other species; ridges granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, granulose; submedian carinae extending slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles very narrowly rounded. Anterolateral processes conical, narrowly rounded apically. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, its center slightly depressed; posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra leaving apical third of eighth urotergite exposed. Corium dark; membrane fumose, somewhat lighter than corium. Legs uniformly dark, slender; fore femora six times as long as wide. Abdomen as described for L. costalis.
Linshcosteus confumus@Linshcosteus confumus Ghauri Figures 204, 205 linshcosteus confumus Ghauri, 1976, p. 184, figs. 5-8, 15, 16, 20, 23, 25, 26, 28. Length of male 21.8 mm, of female 23.2 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.8-5.0 mm, of female 5 mm; width of abdomen of male 9.0 mm, of female 10.6-10.8 mm Overall color very dark brown or black. Pilosity short, inconspicuous. Head with numerous setiferous granules except on narrow band along middle ventrally. Head very slender, almost three times as long as wide (1:0.35), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7). Anteocular region approximately four times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.30); postocular with sides faintly rounded, widest behind middle; postocular region only very slightly convex below. Oypeus strongly widened on its posterior half, but not conspicuously elevated in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view closely approaching level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.3-2.5. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of first and second antennal segments ( only one specimen examined for this character) 1:5.2. Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with scattered setae longer than its diameter. Apex of first rostral segment approaching or attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending beyond level of anterior margin of eyes, third segment extending distinctly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 90-2.05:0.55. Pronotum black, sides carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated, ridges granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, wrinkled, granulose; submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical, narrowly tapering but not pointed apically. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, its center only shallowly depressed. Posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra of male extending to middle of seventh urotergite but only to base of seventh urotergite in female. Clavus and corium black. Membrane fumose, dark greyish brown, with faint cloudy dark reddish brown pattern elements; veins of membrane faintly reddish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 6-7 times as long as wide. Venter as described for L. costalis.
Linshcosteus costalis@Linshcosteus costalis Ghauri Figures 206, 207 Linshcosteus costalis Ghauri, 1976, p. 187, figs. 9-12, 17, 18, 21, 24, 29. Length of male 20.5 mm, of female 21.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.0-5.2 mm; of abdomen of male 8.8-9.0 mm, of female 9.0-11.2 mm Overall color very dark brown to black, with wide band along costal margin and membranal veins, light reddish or yellowish brown. Pilosity short, inconspicuous, except on light-colored portions of corium. Head with numerous setiferous granules except narrowly along middle ventrally. Head over twice as long as wide (1:0.40-0.45) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.80-0.85). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25); postocular with sides rounded, widest slightly behind middle; postocular region faintly convex below. Clypeus widened on posterior half, not strongly elevated in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in side view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.60-1.85. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.8-5.3:3. l:? Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of respective segments, only third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes, third not extending beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 9-2.1:0.6. Pronotum black, in some specimens with anterolateral projections, lateral margin and\or submedian carinae tinged with reddish. Sides of pronotum carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated, ridges granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, granulose, submedian carinae extending backward to slightly beyond middle of disc of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, triangular, pointed, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum black, coarsely rugose transversally, its center only faintly depressed; posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra of male falling slightly short of apex of seventh urotergite, those of female extending only slightly beyond base of seventh urotergite. Clavus and corium black, base of corium and costal margin between Sc and R + M and R light reddish or yellowish brown; apex of corium black. Membrane fumose, dark brown, veins yellowish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 6-8 times as long as wide. Venter strongly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes; delicately striate transversally on and near flattened area, irregularly wrinkled on lateral portions of urosternites. Setae short, numerous but not conspicuous. Abdomen very wide, with lateral portions of urotergites amply exposed. Spiracles adjoining connexival sutures. Abdomen dark, irregularly and faintly Clouded with dark reddish brown. Spiracles yellow. Intersegmental sutures, especially on connexivum, narrowly reddish or orange colored.
Linshcosteus kali@Linshcosteus kali, new species Figures SK, L; 15A; 208, 209 DIAGNOSIS: Linshcosteus kali differs from the most similar species, L. confumus and L. costalis, by the conspicuously convex lower surface of the postocular region, from costalis furthermore by its uniformly dark corium, and from confumus by its relatively short rostrum and its larger eyes DESCRIPTION. Length of male 19 mm, of female 20 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.8-9.0 mm, of female 10 mm Overall color very dark brown or black. Pilosity short and inconspicuous. Head with very numerous setiferous granules, except on narrow strip along middle ventrally. Head over twice as long as wide (1:0.40-0.45) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.7-0.8). Anteocular region three and one-half to four times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.30); postocular with sides faintly rounded, widest behind middle. Postocular region strongly convex below. Oypeus gently widened on posterior half, not strongly elevated in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface, but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.3. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna] segments 1:4.7-5.1:2.7-3.1:2.2-2.4. Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; apex of second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; third segment not extending to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 55-1.85:0.50-0.65. Pronotum black, its sides carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated; ridges granulose. Posterior lobe rugose-granulose; submedian carinae not extending beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subtriangular, pointed. Scutellum black, heavily rugose transversally, its center only faintly depressed. Posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, elongate conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra of male and female falling short of apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus and corium black; membrane fumose, very dark brown; veins yellowish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 6.0-7.5 times as long as wide. Venter as described for L. costalis. DISTRIBUTION: South India: Madras State: Coimbatore, 1400 ft., April 5, 1963, Nov., 1963, Sept., 1966 (P. Susai Nathan; AMNH), one male, holotype, one female, allotype, two males, paratypes, one dissected male; one male, paratype, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro. BIOLOGY: Unknown. 0BSERVA TION: Although the differences from the superficially rather similar L. costalis and L. confumus are slight, they are constant; the type series of kali is uniform for the diagnostic and key characters. ETYMOLOGY: This species is named for the Hindu goddess, Kali. DIPETALOGASTER USINGER Dipetalogaster Usinger, 1939, p. 40; 1944, p. 40. Lent and Jurberg, 1972, p. 465. Triatomini. Large sized (33-42 mm). Body not flattened. Overall color dark. Body surface smooth, not granulose; setae short. Head elongate subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. First and third rostral segments short, second elongate. Third i:ostral segment with double invaginated flasklike rostral organ. Anterior lobe of pronotum with discal tubercles; humeral angles rounded. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Posterior projection of scutellum tubercle-like. Legs strong, elongate. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Abdomen wide, with lateral portions not covered by hemelytra. In both sexes, dorsal connexival plates normal; ventral connexival plates not developed. Wide longitudinally pleated connexival membrane connecting dorsal connexival plates to ventral sclerites. In unfed specimens, anterior portion of urotergites overlapping posterior portion of preceding urotergites; urotergites connected by expandable membrane. Median process of pygophore subrectangular, truncate. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first segment much shorter than second, third with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally without median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum attaining prosternum, slender; third segment with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Dipetalogaster Usinger@Dipetalogaster Usinger, 1939, p. 40; 1944, p. 40. Lent and Jurberg, 1972, p. 465. Triatomini. Large sized (33-42 mm). Body not flattened. Overall color dark. Body surface smooth, not granulose; setae short. Head elongate subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. First and third rostral segments short, second elongate. Third i:ostral segment with double invaginated flasklike rostral organ. Anterior lobe of pronotum with discal tubercles; humeral angles rounded. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Posterior projection of scutellum tubercle-like. Legs strong, elongate. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Abdomen wide, with lateral portions not covered by hemelytra. In both sexes, dorsal connexival plates normal; ventral connexival plates not developed. Wide longitudinally pleated connexival membrane connecting dorsal connexival plates to ventral sclerites. In unfed specimens, anterior portion of urotergites overlapping posterior portion of preceding urotergites; urotergites connected by expandable membrane. Median process of pygophore subrectangular, truncate. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first segment much shorter than second, third with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally without median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum attaining prosternum, slender; third segment with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Dipetalogaster maximus@Dipetalogaster maximus (Uhler) Figures 6A, D; IOC-E; 12C; 20D, F; 22D; 24P; 27C; 29N; 210, 211 Conorhinus maximus Uhler, 1894, p. 286. Triatoma maxima: Neiva, 1914a, p. 48. Larrousse, 1924b, p. 208, figs. 1, 2. Pinto, 1925a, p. 62, figs. 40, 41. Eutriatoma maxima: Pinto, 1931, p. 92. Dipetalogaster maximus: Usinger, 1939, p. 36; 1944, p. 41, pl. 8, fig.F. Ryckman and Ryckman, 1967a, p. 180, figs. 1-9. Mazzotti, 1970, p. 320. Lent and Jurberg, 1972, p. 466, figs. 1-49. Length of male 33-35 mm, of female 41-42 mm; width of pronotum of male 8 mm, of female 8.5-9.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 12 mm, of female 15-16 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with reddish stripe along outer edge of connexivum. Body surface highly polished. Setae short and sparse, inconspicuous. Head black, delicately granulose, distinctly rugose dorsally and laterally. Head about twice as long as wide (l:0.5- 0.6) and slightly shorter than pronotum (l:l.05-1.10). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular, the latter very short, with sides conspicuously produced at middle, almost angular. Clypeus slightly widened on posterior half, conspicuousl y elevated in lateral view. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.55-1.70. Ocelli situated close to hind border of head. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with approximately seven trichobothria, three closely spaced at and near base, four more widely spaced along entire length of segment . Second segment also with numerous stiff setae from as long to up to twice as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short delicate hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-3.5:3.5-3.7:2.0-2.25. Third segment invariably longer than second. Rostrum black or dark reddish brown. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of hind border of head. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical, with very short and sparse setae, appearing glabrous, except third segment with numerous hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Rostral organ as shown in figure lOC-E. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.1-2.3:0.65-0.70. Neck laterally with l+ 1 faint reddish spots. Pronotum black, polished. Anterior lobe with irregular protuberances; discal tubercles distinct but low, subhemispherical; lateral carinae with multiple constrictions, but without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe of pronotum prominently elevated at middle, shallowly rugose. Submedian carinae very low, inconspicuous, distinct only on anterior half of posterior lobe of pronotum. Humeri distinctly elevated, rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical, from pointed to blunt. Scutellum coarsely rugose, with center of disc deeply depressed, lateral portions elevated; posterior process short and thick, rounded apically, horizontal or deflected distally, only about half as long as main body of scutellum. Metasternum on posterior half carinate along middle longitudinally. Hemelytra fully developed but falling slightly short of apex of abdomen; those of male extending to middle of urotergite VII, those of female extending at least to base of urotergite VII but not beyond base of urotergite VIII. Legs black, slender, elongate; fore femur 7 .0-7 .5 times as long as wide. Femora apically with 0-2 minute setiferous denticles. Venter convex, faintly flattened longitudinally along middle in both sexes. Urosternites minutely striate transversally , irregularly wrinkled close to lateral border. Spiracles distant from lateral margin of urosternite by several times their diameter . Connexivum as in generic description . Abdomen dark brown or black, with outer half of connexival plates orange or red . Median process of pygophore as shown in figure 22F. Phallus as illustrated ; vesica heavily sclerotized.
Panstrongylus Berg@Panstrongylus Berg, 1879a, p. 268; 1879b, p. 167. Champion, 1899, p. 206. Pinto, 1931, p. 104. Lent and Pifano, 1940, p. 629. Lima, 1940, p. 188. Usinger, 1944, p. 42. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 132. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 379. Mestor Kirkaldy, 1904, p. 280. Usinger, 1944, p. 44. Triatomini. Medium-sized to very large (19-38 mm). Body not conspicuously flattened. Color varied. Setiferous granules absent; setae of adults invariably short, in most cases inconspicuous. Head short and wide, subconical, invariably shorter than pronotum. Antenniferous tubercles situated close to anterior margin of eyes. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prostemum. First rostral article in most cases shorter than second, only in one species subequal; third article the shortest, without rostral organ. Fore lobe of pronotum with or without discal and lateral tubercles. Humeral angles rounded or angular but not spined. Prostemum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar process from elongate cylindrical to very short. Legs with femora in most cases armed with denticles, the latter rarely obsolete. Spongy fossulae present or absent. Abdomen wide, with lateral portions of urotergites covered by hemelytra. Connexivum free, its segments normally developed. Venter of abdomen convex or flattened longitudinally along middle. Median process of pygophore narrowly spinelike. Fifth instar nymph: As described for tribe. Fourth antennal article delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length; first rostral segment shorter than second (except possibly in tupynambai), third without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus present; antenniferous tubercles situated well behind middle of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally with or without series of median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe. Rostrum attaining prostemum, stout; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Panstrongylus chinai@Panstrongylus chinai (Del Ponte) Figures 240; 26E; 28A; 213-215 Triatoma chinai Del Ponte, 1929, p. 4, fig.2; 1930, p. 868, pl. 43. Panstrongylus chinai: Pinto, 1931, p. 107. Wygodzinsky, 1948, p. 204, fig.4. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 386, figs. 4-28. Length of male 22-27 mm, of female 21-25 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 5.5-7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7-9 mm, of female 9-10 mm Overall color brownish black to black, many specimens with bluish waxlike pruinosity; small reddish marks on neck, pronotum and connexivum, rarely absent. Head uniformly black, shallowly rugose transversally on entire upper surface. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.60-0.65), and from slightly to distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.05-1.20). Anteocular region more than twice as long as postocular (1:0.35-0.45), postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded and converging posteriorly. Clypeus widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae small, apically curved, pointed. Head flat or slightly convex above in lateral view. Eyes in side view extending below level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.55-2.00. Antenniferous tubercles without apico-external process. First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined stiff setae longer than diameter of segment, some more than twice as long, and also with numerous shorter sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-3.4:1.9- 2.3:1.5-1.8. Rostrum as shown in figure 215A. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of middle of neck. Entire rostrum with very short setae, conspicuous only on dorsal surface of apex of second and on entire third segment, but even there most setae not longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-2.0:0.5-0.6. Neck black, with I+ I lateral spots reddish. Pronotum black, with orange-red markings as follows: apex of anterolateral projections, discal tubercles, lateral carinae of fore lobe and 2 + 2 spots along hind border of sclerite, 1 + I on humeral angles and l + 1 at level of submedian carinae. Extension of red markings variable, from v,1ell developed as described above and illustrated in figure 2158 to almost completely absent except faint reddening of humeral area. Anterior lobe of pronotum slightly convex, with ridges distinct, 1 + 1 small but distinct round discal tubercles, lateral tubercles obsolescent. Posterior lobe of pronotum irregularly wrinkled. Submedian carinae approaching or attaining hind border of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded, slightly explanate. Anterolateral projections variable in shape, from subconical to slightly flattened and rounded apically. Scutellum black, posterior process reddish at apex in some individuals. Scutellum transversally rugose; median depression shallow but distinct, not extending onto base of posterior process, the latter approximately two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subhorizontal, subcylindrical, apex rounded and slightly swollen in dorsal view. Hemelytra approaching hind margin of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium and clavus uniformly dark brown or black, membrane fumose, dark brown. Veins of corium frequently shining, thus more conspicuous than those of membrane. Legs uniformly dark brown or black, slender, fore femora 5-7 times as long as wide. Femora with a slight protuberance apically below but without distinct denticles. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female. Urosternites striate transversally; setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles yellowish, close to connexival border, distance equal to their diameter or less. Urosternites II and III fused. Connexivum dark brown or black, with orange-red irregularly shaped spots in posterolateral angle of each connexival plate, spots increasing in size from anterior to posterior segments; spots larger on under than on upper connexival surface in some specimens. MALE GENITALIA: Lateral phallosoma processes large, denticulate apically below; vesica large, semiglobose, heavily sclerotized.
Panstrongylus diasi@Panstrongylus diasi Pinto and Lent Figures 216-218 Panstrongylus diasi Pinto and Lent, 1946, p. 461, figs. 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13, 14, 17. Correa and Carvalho, 1956, p. 80, figs. 1-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 391, figs. 1 (part), 2 (part), 29-47. Length of male 26 mm, of female 27 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5 mm, of female 7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male and female 9.5 mm Overall color yellowish brown, with darkbrown areas on pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly brown, shallowly rugose dorsally along middle, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.60-0.65), and much shorter than pronotum (1:1.3). Anteocular region less than twice as long as postocular (1:0.60-0.65); postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow, widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly tapering apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head not conspicuously elevated between eyes, its surface flat in lateral view. Eyes in side view extending in both sexes below level of ventral surface of head but remote from dorsal. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.3-2.8. Antenniferous tubercles with small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by about one-third of its own length. Second antennal segment with short adpressed bristles, shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of first and second antennal segments 1:2.6-3.1:?:?. Rostrum as shown in figure 218C. First rostral segment extending close to level of anterior margin of eyes, second extending to level of base of neck. First and second rostral segments almost entirely glabrous or with short sparse setae only, third segment with numerous setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.45:0.60-0.65. Pronotum light reddish brown, with the following areas dark brown: center of collar, anterior lobe of pronotum anteriorly at middle behind collar and in longitudinal furrow, posterior lobe with large central longitudinal mark as wide as space separating submedian carinae anteriorly but gradually tapering posteriorly, as well as 1+ 1 sublateral markings in areas between submedian and lateral carinae, these markings most conspicuous and largest anteriorly and posteriorly; posterior margin also dark except on posterolateral angles. Anterior lobe of pronotum moderately convex, its surface even, ridges faint; discal and lateral tubercles absent. Lateral carinae of anterior and posterior lobes almost continuous, not forming a distinct angle. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly but not deeply rugose. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum short and blunt. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process dark or light reddish brown. Scutellum conspicuously rugose, with shallow depression. Posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, narrowly cylindrical, rounded apically. Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen; their color yellowish brown, with large central area of corium dark brown; clavus light brown. Membrane fumose, slightly lighter colored than dark areas of corium. Legs slender, with fore femora about six times as long as wide. Fore femora armed with one pair of strong subapical denticles followed or not by one additional, small denticle, or with one denticle only; mid femora with similar denticles, or unarmed. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae in both sexes. Legs uniformly dark brown. Venter with short inconspicuous setae. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III absent. Venter brownish yellow, darkened laterally. Connexivum yellowish brown, anterior half or third of each connexival plate with black subrectangular spot, adjacent to intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with lateral projections. Lateral endosoma process not denticulate.
Panstrongylus geniculatus@Panstrongylus geniculatus (Latreille) Figures 27 A; 219-221 Reduvius geniculatus Latreille, 1811, p. 225, pl. 15, fig.12 Lamus geniculatus: Stal 1859, p. 116, pl. 6, fig.4 Conorhinus geniculatus: Walker, 1873b, p. 17 Triatoma geniculata: Chagas, 1912, p. 305. Mestor geniculatus: Brindley, 1931, p. 136. Panstrongylus geniculatus: Pinto, 1931, p. 108, figs50, 53, 54. Usinger, 1944, p. 43, pl. 8, fig.B Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 146, figs 287-298. Lent and Jurberg, 1968, p. 499, figs 1-37; 1969a, p. 125, figs. 1-7; 1975, p. 395, figs l (part), 2 (part)Conorrhinus lutulentus Erichson, 1848, p. 614 Conorhinus corticalis Walker, 1873b, p. 17 Lamus corticalis: Lethierry and Severin, 1896, p 115 Triatoma tenuis Neiva, 1914b, p. 37 Triatoma .fluminensis Neiva and Pinto, 1922, p. 403 Panstrongylus parageniculatus Ortiz, 1971, p. 80, pl. 10, fig.B, pl. 11, fig.B, pl. 12, fig.B. Length of male 22-28 mm, of female 22.5-29.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-7.0 mm, of female 5.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7-10 mm, of female 7-12 mm Overall color light brown or light orangebrown, with dark brown or black pattern elements on various body parts. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly light colored, or, in some specimens, dorsum with l + l narrow dark submedian stripes extending from base of jugae to space between ocelli. Dorsal surface of head shallowly rugose. Anterior portion of head conspicuously upturned. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.70-0.75), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (l:l.15-1.30). Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (l:0.45-0.55); postocular with sides straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus only slightly widened posteriorly. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, angular, with incipient hook-shaped process . Head convex above between eyes, in lateral view. Eyes in lateral view extending below level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis l:l.45-1.9. Ocellar tubercles black at base. Antenniferous tubercles dark, with pronounced apicolateral process. Antennae from reddish brown to black. First antennal segment slightly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff inclined setae about as long as diameter of segment, as well as with numerous sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments l:3.0-3.7:2.35- 2.80:2.5-2.7. Rostrum dark brown. First rostral segment approaching or extending to or slightly beyond level of anterior margin of eyes; second rostral segment attaining level of middle of neck. First and under surface of second rostral segment with very short inconspicuous setae; upper surface of second and entire third segment with hairs about as long as diameter of respective segment. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.0-1.3:0.45-0.55. Pronotum light orangebrown. Collar with or without dark area. Anterior lobe of pronotum with central black marking in shape of four leaf clover, and l + 1 lateral black markings in shape of interrupted H; in some specimens short dark marking extending from base of H onto posterior lobe. Posterior lobe with black band along posterior margin except at humeral area, this band parallel sided or with anterior projections. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas low, faintly rugose. Discal and lateral tubercles from small to obsolescent. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose; submedian carinae in most specimens evanescent on posterior half of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum shortly subconical, rounded apically. Scutellum and its process black, sublateral callosities limiting shallow median depression orange-yellow; apex of process in some specimens light colored. Process large, as long as or slightly longer than main body of scutellum, narrowly cylindrical, horizontal, its apex rounded and in some specimens slightly deflected. Pleura and sterna of general body color, with dark markings. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes; their overall color light brown or light yellowish brown, with veins, especially those of membrane, conspicuously darker. Corium as light as or slightly lighter than membrane, dark at extreme apex. In some specimens, corium and membrane mottled with small dark spots. Legs with fore femur about five and one-half times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2-6 (most frequently 4) small subapical denticles arranged in two rows . Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae in both sexes, those of males larger, about as long as diameter of article, those of females not more than half as long as diameter of tibia apically. Coxae and trochantera light yellow or orange-yellow. Femora and tibiae dark brown or black, femora with short, orange apical annulus, in many specimens a similar though shorter annulus on base of tibiae. Apex of tibiae in some specimens also with short reddish annulus. Venter convex, not flattened distinctly on disc; urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, sparse, inconspicuous. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from the latter by not more than their own diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III obsolescent . Overall color of abdomen light orangebrown, with pattern formed by large median and smaller sublateral and lateral spots as shown in figures 2198; 22IE . Connexivum light yellowish brown with black subrectangular marks on anterior third of dorsal connexival plates, of varied shape, frequently indented posteriorly. Dark markings on ventral portion of connexivum larger than on dorsal surface. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica without conspicuous lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes wide, subapically below with field of small denticles.
Panstrongylus guentheri@Panstrongylus guentheri Berg Figures 6L; 22F; 222-224 Panstrongylus giintheri Berg, 1879a, p. 269; 1879b, p. 168. Pinto, 1931, p. llO. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 140, figs. 274-286. Panstrongylus guentheri: Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 171. Wygodzinsky, 1949, p. 337. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1%8, p. 33, figs. 8, 9. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 396, fig.l (part), 2 (part). Triatoma guentheri: Neiva, 1914a, p. 6. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 875, pl. 46. Triatoma larroussei Pinto, 1925b, p. 454, figs. I, 2. Panstrongylus larroussei: Pinto, 1931, p. 112, figs. 57, 60. Pinto and Lent, 1946, p. 459, figs. 3, 4, 7, 8, ll, 12, 15, 16, 18, 19. Triatoma seai Del Ponte, 1929, p. 7, fig.3; 1930, p. 900, pl. 52. Panstrongylus seai: Pinto, 1931, p. ll9; Mazza and Jorg, 1937, p. 40, figs. 6-8. Length of male 22-25 mm, of female 24-27 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 6-7 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.5-9.5 mm, of female 9.5-10.0 mm Overall color reddish or orange-brown, with dark brown areas on pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly orange-brown, very shallowly rugose dorsally along middle, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6-0.7), and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.4-l.5). Anteocular region slightly less than twice as long as postocular (l:0.55-0.65); postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded. Clypeus narrow, widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head strongly elevated between eyes dorsally. Eyes in lateral view comparatively small, remote from level of upper surface of head; eyes of male extending ventrally below level of under surface of head, but those of female not quite attaining level of under surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis (only males examined) 1:2.10-2.65. Ocelli surrounded by ring of dark pigment. Antenniferous tubercles as shown in fig.224A, with small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark reddish brown. First antennal segment unusually long, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by close to one-half of its own length. Second antennal segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.2:2.2-2.5:?. Rostrum as shown in figure 2248, its first segment attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; second segment extending to level of base of neck. First and under surface of second rostral segments practically glabrous; upper surface of second and entire third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.55-1. 70:0.55-0. 70. Pronotum with anterior lobe light reddish brown, posterior lobe from uniformly light reddish brown to entirely dark brown, in some specimens dark color less extensive, with area of lateral margin and submedian carinae lighter. Anterior lobe conspicuously convex; elevated areas low, irregularly rugose; discal tubercles obsolescent, lateral tubercles absent. Lateral carinae of anterior and posterior lobes forming distinct angle. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly rugose transversally. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior half or third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum prominent, from narrowly conical to blunt. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process light brown in some specimens, conspicuously rugose, with shallow median depression. Posterior scutellar process as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, narrowly cylindrical, rounded apically. Hemelytra extending close to apex of seventh urotergite. Color of corium dark brown except subtriangular light spot at base; adjacent areas of clavus also lighter brown. Membrane somewhat lighter than dark portion of corium, fumose. Legs with fore femur approximately five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two rows of three to five conspicuous denticles each, extending over half the length of femur. Additional small denticles irregularly arranged near base of femur. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid legs of male, in female very small and distinct only on fore tibia. Legs uniformly reddish or orange-brown. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by about three times their diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III obsolescent. Venter reddish brown, irregularly darkened at sides and in some specimens on genital region. Connexivum orange brown; anterior half or third of each connexival plate with dark brown or black irregularly shaped subrectangular spot, adjacent to intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Phallus as shown in figure 22F. Vesica with lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes large, not denticulate.
Panstrongylus herreri@Panstrongylus herreri Wygodzinsky Figures 225, 226 Panstrongylus herreri Wygodzinsky, 1948, p. 198, figs. l-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 401, figs. l (part), 2 (part), 78-110. Length of male 20.5-22.0 mm, of female 23.0-27.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.3-6.2 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 6.8-7 .0 mm, of female 8.2-10.0 mm Overall color light brownish yellow dorsally, dark brown or black ventrally. Markings of dorsal surface complex , from dark brown to black, present on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Legs black with yellow markings. Body surface with very short, inconspicuous golden setae. Head light brownish yellow, including genae and antenniferous tubercles; bucculae and entire under surface of head black. Dorsally, a narrow black stripe longitudinally along middle, extending from level of middle of clypeus to that of hind border of eyes, conspicuously widened shortly before middle. Surface of head faintly rugose above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6-0.7), slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.10-1.15). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides faintly rounded, strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with curved, apically tapering projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes above, dorsal surface almost straight in lateral view. Eyes in side view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head, in lateral view. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.6-1.8 (in males), 1:2.0 (in females), viz., eyes of males larger than those of females. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second segment black. First antennal segment approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.32.5:2.1-2.5:2.1. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. First and most of second segment with very short, inconspicuous setae, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.4:0.45-0.55. Neck with 1+ 1 dark spots dorsally. Pronotum with posterior lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brownish yellow, with narrow longitudinal markings on posterior lobe as shown in figure 226B. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas slightly uneven, with 1 + 1 comparatively small discal tubercles, followed or not by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal tubercles; l+ 1 additional, sublateral tubercles invariably present, situated between posterior submedian and lateral tubercles. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe of pronotum coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Submedian carinae attaining posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles salient, narrowly rounded, slightly explanate. Collar of general body color, with 1+ l dark areas at center, and slightly darkened at base of anterolateral projections, the latter tongueshaped, compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum black, with light brown or yellowish median longitudinal stripe including entire posterior process, and light again at sides. Median depression of scutellum narrow, shallow, faintly rugose, remainder of disc of scutellum flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum very short, about one-third as long as main body of scutellum, only slightly elevated at base, its apex knobbed. Pleura extensively black, with yellowish spots. Stema black. Hemelytra closely approaching tip of abdomen, light yellowish brown or yellow, with complex dark brown and black pattern elements as illustrated in figure 225. Base of membranal cells dark velvet brown or sooty black. Legs with fore femora 5.0-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of both sexes with well-developed spongy fossulae, those of male very slightly longer than those of female. Coxae and basal half of trochantera black; apex of trochantera, and base and apex of femora yellow. Remaining portion of femora and tibiae entirely black. Venter convex, flattened longitudinally along middle, more strongly so in female than in male. Urosternites delicately striate transversally, with short, inconspicuous setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between FIG. 226. Panstrongylus herreri. A. Head, dorsal view. B. Pronotum. C. Scutellum. D. Head and anterior portion of thorax, side view. urostemites II and III well developed. Urosternites black; spiracles included in small yellow spots. Connexivum yellow or light yellowish brown. Each connexival segment dorsally at anterolateral comer, adjacent to intersegmental suture, with wedge-shaped mark from one-third to one-half as long but less than half as wide as segment. Ventral connexival segments as above or with transverse black marking adjacent to anterior intersegmental suture, extending over entire width of connexival plate. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes denticulate on entire apical portion.
Panstrongylus howardi@Panstrongylus howardi (Neiva) Figures 227-229 Triatoma howardi Neiva, 1911b, p. 240. Panstrongylus howardi: Pinto, 1931, p. Ill. Lent, 1960, p. 164, figs. 1-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 404, figs. 101-115. Male (female unknown). Length 25-29 mm, width of pronotum 6.0-6.5 mm, of abdomen 8.5-11.0 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with reddish or yellowish areas on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and abdomen with connexivum. Body surface with very short setae. Head entirely black, coarsely rugose on entire dorsal surface including clypeus. Head from one and one-half times to almost twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55-0.70), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (l:l.15-1.25). Anteocular region slightly over twice as long as postocular (l:0.40-0.45), postocular short and wide, with sides converging toward behind. Clypeus slightly widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not quite extending to level of apex of clypeus. Jugae small, pointed, hooklike. Head almost flat above in lateral view, not strongly elevated. Eyes large, in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.0-1.35. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined stiff setae up to twice as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0- 3.5:2.5:2.0. Rostrum comparatively stout. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of middle of neck. First and most of second rostral segment with very short and inconspicuous setae, apex of second segment dorsally and entire third segment with hairs as Jong as diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.40-1.55:0.50. Pronotum black; orange-red on anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of anterior Jobe and lateral carinae with lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe with l + l submedian triangular spots enclosing posterior two-thirds of submedian carinae, as well as I+ I large lateral markings, including humeral area and region immediately anterior to it but without attaining, or only narrowly attaining, transverse furrow of pronotum. Anterior lobe of pronotum slightly convex, elevated areas not prominent. Discal tubercles well developed, rounded; lateral tubercles distinct although smaller than discal ones. Posterior lobe irregularly wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to posterior margin of sclerite. Humeral angles broadly rounded, slightly explanate. Anterolateral projections of pronotum prominent, subconical, rounded apically. Scutellum black, strongly rugose, its depression shallow, not extending to base of posterior process. Process dark at base, reddish on apical half, about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subhorizontal, almost cylindrical, slightly compressed laterally and with apex very faintly swollen, rounded. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, their overall color pale yellowish brown, extreme base of corium and spot close to apex dark, cu-pcu cross-vein with short adjacent portions of other veins conspicuously darkened; apical two-thirds or three-fourths of membranal cells with some adjacent areas also darker brown. Legs uniformly black, slender, fore femora seven times as long as wide. Femora with slight subapical protuberance but without denticles. Minute spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae (probably absent in female). Venter convex, almost imperceptibly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally; setae short, inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their own diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III faint. Venter of abdomen black, lateral portion of urostemites light yellowish or reddish brown, light portion forming continuous band. Connexivum light reddish brown, each segment anteriorly with subrectangular black spot adjacent to intersegmental suture; spots occupying from one-third to one-half of total length of respective segment, extending over entire width of sclerite on under surface, but anterolaterally situated on dorsal connexival segments. GENITALIA: Endosoma processes narrow, denticulate apically. Vesica large, semiglobose, heavily sclerotized.
Panstrongylus humeralis@Panstrongylus humeralis (Usinger) Figures 230, 231 Mestor humeralis Usinger, 1939, p. 38; 1944, p. 46, pl. 8, fig.cPanstrongylus humeralis: Lent and Pifano, 1940, p 631. Lent, 1943b, p. 492, figs. 7-9. Lent and Jurberg, 1974, p. 409, figs. 1 (part), 2 (part), 116-138. Length of male 27.0-27.5 mm, of female 30-32 mm; width of pronotum of male 8 mm, of female 9 mm; width of abdomen of male 9-10 mm, of female 11.5-12.0 mm Overall color light brown dorsally and dark brown or black below. Markings of dorsal surface complex, dark brown or black, present on head, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Overall color of legs ferrugineous. Body surface with short, goldencolored setae, most distinct on head. Head light brown, with dark markings as follows: a median stripe extending from level of jugae to level of anterior margin of ocelli, stripe wide anteriorly, narrowed toward behind; antenniferous tubercles, genae, bucculae, base of ocelliferous tubercles and entire under surface of head. Integument of head faintly rugose and punctuate above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.70-0.75), and much shorter than pronotum (1:1.35-1.45). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides rounded, strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with conspicuous slightly curved spinelike projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes dorsally. Eyes large, in side view surpassing level of under surface of head in both sexes but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.7-2.0 (1:1.75-1.85 in males, 1:1.85-2.0 in females), viz., eyes of females slightly smaller than those of males. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second articles black. First antennal segment almost attaining level of apex of clypeus; second with stiff setae as long as diameter of segment, and, mostly on under surface, with numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4-2.8:2.25-2.65: 1.8-2.1. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of middle of neck. First and most of second segment only with very short inconspicuous hairs, somewhat longer setae on apex of second segment; third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.20-1.25:0.4-0.5. Pronotum with hind lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brown with narrow longitudinal markings. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas faintly granulose, with 1 + 1 large although not high discal tubercles, followed posteriorly by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal ones. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Humeral angles salient, rounded, narrowly explanate. Collar of general body color, with faint dark spot at center and I+ l small markings at base of anterolateral processes, the latter large, elongate subtriangular, flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum light yellowish brown, with median dark longitudinal marking, basally as wide as central depression, almost linear apically, extending to dorsum of posterior process to close to its apex. Median impression of scutellum shallow, rugose; lateral portions of scutellum wide and flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum short, half or less than half as long as body of scutellum, conspicuously humped at base, apical portion slightly widened, rounded, elevated in lateral view. Pleura light colored, acetabula and sutures between sclerites dark. Stema dark. Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of abdomen, light brown, with complex dark brown or black pattern elements on corium and membrane, as illustrated ; base of membranal cells conspicuously sooty black. Legs with coxae black; trochantera yellow, remaining segments rust colored. Femora with subapical annulus black, base of femora adjacent to trochanter yellow. Tibiae with basal and apical annulus black. Femora of first and second pair with I+ l subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae with well developed spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Venter convex, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, sparse, inconspicuous. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between urostemites II and Ill well developed. Urosternites dark brown or black; spiracles contrastingly yellow. Connexivum light orangebrown; each segment anteriorly with short black marking adjacent to intersegmental suture; posterior margin of dark spots deeply emarginate on upper connexival plates, straight across or oblique on ventral connexival plates. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes with denticles on entire apical portion.
Panstrongylus lenti@Panstrongylus lenti Galvao and Palma Figures 232, 233 Panstrongylus lenti Galviio and Palma, 1968, p. 403, figs. 1-4. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 409. figs. 139-148. Female (only specimen known). Length 19 mm; width of pronotum 5 mm; of abdomen 7.5 mm Overall color very light reddish brown, with dark markings on pronotum, hemelytra, pleura and abdomen with connexivum. Head light yellowish brown, very faintly rugose transversally on dorsum along middle, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.65) and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region slightly less than twice as long as postocular (1:0.55), postocular short and wide, with sides slightly convex, converging toward behind. Oypeus widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head not conspicuously elevated above. Eyes in lateral view exceeding level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2. Antenniferous tubercles with small but distinct apicolateral process. First antennal segment reddish brown, falling short of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. Rostrum as shown in figure 233C. First rostral segment attaining level of anterior margin of eyes, second extending to level of center of neck. First and second rostral segments almost glabrous, third with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.1:0.5. Pronotum of general body color; hind lobe with entire area between submedian carinae and lateral borders, and inner portion of areas between submedian carinae and lateral borders dark brown. Anterior lobe convex, elevated areas low. Discal tubercles small but distinct, rounded, subconical in side view. Lateral tubercles obsolete. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly and irregularly wrinkled. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum well developed, subconical. Scutellum with process dark brown, rugose, central depression well developed, extending onto base of posterior process. Process elongate, as long as main body of scutellum, subhorizontal, narrowly cylindrical, rounded at apex. Pleura and sterna of general color, posterior margin of propleura darkened. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium and clavus pale yellow, except cell adjoining clavus and extreme apex of corium which are brown. Membrane brown, fumose, base of membranal cells and closely adjacent areas darker brown. Legs uniformly light yellowish brown. Fore femora five times as long as wide. Apical half of fore femora with three pairs of small denticles. Spongy fossulae absent. Mid legs not preserved. Abdominal venter shortly pilose. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by approximately three times their own diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III obsolescent. Abdomen of general body color. Urosternites IIIVI each with 1 + 1 conspicuous black sub lateral spots . Dorsal connexival plates III and IV with very small blackish spots near anterior border.
Panstrongylus lignarius@Panstrongylus lignarius (Walker) Figures 29M; 32A; 234-236 Conorhinus lignarius Walker, 1873b, p. 17. Eratyrus lignarius: Lethierry and Severin, 1896, p. 117. Conorrhinus lignarius: Champion, 1899, p. 206. Lamus lignarius: Distant, 1902, p. 191. Triatoma lignarius: Neiva, 19lld, p. 461. Panstrongylus lignarius: Pinto, 1931, p. 116. Lent, 1943b, p. 486, figs. 1-6. Deane and Damasceno, 1950, p. 809, figs. 1, 2. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 411, figs. l (part), 2 (part), 149-169. Mestor lignarius: Usinger, 1939, p. 39. Length of male 25-26 mm, of female 30-31 mm; width of pronotum of male 7.0-7.5 mm, of female 8.0-8.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 8-9 mm, of female 11-12 mm Overall color light brown dorsally; ferrugineous, dark brown or black ventrally. Markings of dorsal surface complex, from dark brown to black, present on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Legs ferrugineous or black, with yellow markings. Body surface with very short inconspicuous golden setae. Head light brown, including part or all of genae and antenniferous tubercles; bucculae and entire under surface of head black; dorsally, a faded dark stripe of irregular shape longitudinally along middle, extending from level of jugae to that of ocelli. Surface of head faintly rugose above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.70-0.75) and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.3-1.4). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular, the latter with sides faintly rounded, strongly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with curved pointed projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes above, dorsal surface almost straight in lateral view. Eyes large in both sexes, in lateral view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second segments black. First antennal segment approaching level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4- 2.7:2.4-2.7:1.7-2.0. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of neck. First and most of second segment with very short, inconspicuous setae, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.4:0.3-0.5. Pronotum with posterior lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brown, with narrow longitudinal markings. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas faintly granulose, with 1 + 1 comparatively small discal tubercles, followed or not by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal tubercles; 1+ 1 additional, sublateral tubercles invariably present, situated between posterior submedian and lateral tubercles. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Submedian carinae short, not attaining posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles salient, from rounded to subangular. Humeri elevated, humeral angles narrowly explanate. Collar of general body color, faintly darkened submedially and again, more intensely so, at base of anterolateral projections, the latter large, narrowly conical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, narrowly tapering at apex. Scutellum black, with light brown or yellowish median longitudinal stripe including entire posterior process, and again at sides of sclerite. Median depression of scutellum narrow, shallow, faintly rugose; remainder of disc of scutellum flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum very short, one-half to one-third as long as main body of scutellum, only slightly elevated at base, its apex knobbed. Neck with 1 + 1 dark spots dorsally. Pleura light reddish brown, with sutures between sclerites and parts of the latter dark. Stema dark. Hemelytra closely approaching apex of abdomen, light brown, with complex dark brown or black pattern elements as illustrated in figures 234, 235. Base of membranal cells conspicuously sooty black. Legs with fore femora 4.3-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of both sexes with well developed spongy fossulae, those of male slightly larger than those of females. Coxae and basal half of trochanter black; apex of trochantera, base and apex of femora, and subbasal annulus of tibiae, yellowish. Remaining portion of femora from rust-colored to black; tibia black. Venter convex, flattened longitudinally along middle, more distinctly so in female than in male. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between urostemites II and III well developed. Urosternites from dark rust-colored to black; spiracles included in small yellow spot. Connexivum yellow or light yellowish brown. Each connexival segment dorsally at anterolateral comer adjacent to intersegmental suture with wedge-shaped black mark from one-third to one-half as long but less than half as wide as segment. Ventrally, connexival segments with transverse black marking adjacent to anterior intersegmental suture extending over entire width of segment and about one-third as long as latter. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes with denticles on entire apical portion.
Panstrongylus Lutzi@Panstrongylus Lutzi (Neiva and Pinto) Figures 61; 237-239 Triatoma Lutzi Neiva and Pinto, l923c, p. 74. Pinto, l925a, p. 55, figs. 37, 38. PanstrongyLus Lutzi: Pinto, 1931, p. ll6, fig.51. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, figs. 170-194. Length of male 24.0-28.5 mm, of female 28-29 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5-8.0 mm, of female 7.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 8-11 mm, of female 10.5-11.5 mm Overall color yellowish brown, with dark brown markings on head, pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly dark yellowish brown, antenniferous tubercles dark brown, shallowly rugose dorsally along middle, otherwise smooth. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.7), and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.3-l.5). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.50-0.55); postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded and covered from above by large, laterally protruding ocelli. Clypeus widened posteriorly. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head strongly elevated above, in lateral view. Eyes in side view remote from level of upper but projecting below level of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.8. Antenniferous tubercles very short, with small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark reddish brown. First antennal segment extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by one-third of its own length; second segment with inclined stiff setae and numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.9-3.3:2.2-2.4:1.95-2.0. Rostrum as shown in figure 2398; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second segment extending to level of base of neck. First and most of second antenna} segment with very short inconspicuous hairs, appearing almost glabrous; apex of second and entire third rostral segment with hairs twice as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.2-1.3:0.50-0.55. Overall color of pronotum yellowish brown, the following areas from dark to black: center of collar, surface of fore lobe except discal tubercles and lateral carinae, three longitudinal markings on posterior lobe, viz., one median mark, widest anteriorly and abruptly narrowed on posterior half, attaining posterior margin or pronotum or not, and 1 + 1 sublateral markings between submedian and lateral carinae, the latter two marks variable in size, from covering only one-third of length of posterior lobe to as long as hind lobe. Posterior margin of pronotum narrowly darkened. Anterior lobe of pronotum convex; ridges low, inconspicuous; discal tubercles large, rounded; lateral tubercles much smaller than discal ones, mere elevations of lateral carinae. Lateral margins of anterior and posterior lobe of pronotum forming conspicuous angle, pronotum strongly constricted at level of transverse furrow. Posterior lobe of pronotum rugose transversally. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum about as large as discal tubercles, from conical to rounded. Scutellum dark brown, with posterior process in some specimens lighter brown. Scutellum conspicuously rugose, central excavation shallow, elongate, in some specimens extending to base of scutellar process. Posterior scutellar process as long as main body of sclerite, subhorizontal, slender cylindrical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium yellowish brown, at center with large, irregularly shaped dark brown spot; apex of corium equally dark brown. Membrane almost as dark as dark portion of corium, fumose. Legs with fore femur approximately five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with numerous denticles , arranged in two rows on apical twothirds, irregularly arranged near base of article, progressively increasing in size from base to apex of femora. Fore and mid tibiae with very small spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Legs uniformly reddish brown, faintly darker on apex. Venter convex in both sexes. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short and sparse. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III shallow. Venter yellowish or reddish brown. Connexivum yellowish brown, anterior third of half of each connexival segment with dark brown or black irregularly subrectangular spot adjacent to intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica small. Lateral endosoma processes short, free portion denticulate.
Panstrongylus megistus@Panstrongylus megistus (Burmeister) Figures 241; 29A-C; 30E; 240-242 Conorhinus megistus Burmeister, 1835, p. 246 Neiva, 1910, p. 206. Patton and Cragg, 1913, p 492, pl. 59, fig.2 wmus megistus: Stal, 1859, p. 115 Triatoma megistus: Neiva, 1911b, p. 239 Panstrongylus megistus: Pinto, 1931, p. 117, figs. 31, 58, 59. Lent and Jurberg, 1968, p. 510, figs 38-58; 1975, p. 425, figs. I (part), 2 (part)Mestor megistus: Usinger, 1944, p. 13 Triatoma megista: Neiva, 1911a, p. 421. Pinto, 1925, p. 39, figs. 20-31. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 882 pl 48Conorhinus gigas Burmeister, 1861, p. 320 (nee Fabricius) Conorhinus porrigens Walker, 1873b, p. 19. Neiva, 1914, p. 12 Triatoma wernickei Del Ponte, 1923, p. 66; 1925, p 29, pl. I, fig.A Triatoma megista var. Wernickei: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 883, pl. 49, fig.I Triatoma africana Neiva, 1911b, p. 239 Panstrongylus africanus Pinto, 1931, p. 106. Length of male 26-34 mm, of female 29-38 mm; width of pronotum of male 7-10 mm, of female 8-10 mm; width of abdomen of male 11-13 mm, of female 12-14 mm Overall color black, with red or light reddish brown markings on neck, pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface with short, sparse, inconspicuous setae. Head black, shallowly rugose transversally and slightly punctate above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.75-0.85), and much shorter than pronotum (1:1.3-1.5). Anteocular region from two to three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.45); postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded, strongly convergent toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae terminating with prominent, pointed free projection . Head very strongly elevated on posterior half. Eyes large, in side view considerably surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Eyes of males larger than those of females; ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.25-1.35 in males, 1:1.55-1.80 in females. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral projection. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with inclined stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.3:2.2-2.5: 1.4-1.8. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles or, rarely, of anterior margin of eyes; second segment extending to level of middle of neck. First rostral segment appearing glabrous; second with distinct setae, about half as long as diameter of segment, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments l:1.10-1.25:0.40-0.55. Pronotum with anterior lobe entirely black, rarely with I+ I small reddish marks between dorsal tubercles and collar, or with tubercles reddish; posterior lobe black, with 2+2 large red markings on posterior half or third, viz., I+ 1 submedian spots as a continuation of submedian carinae, and 1 + 1 lateral spots occupying humeri and adjacent areas; in some cases, markings expanded posteriorly and connected, thus entire posterior margin of sclerite red. Anterior lobe convex, smooth, with elevated areas almost imperceptible; discal tubercles in most specimens large, subconical, with apex narrowly pointed but not spinelike; lateral tubercles well developed, similar to discal tubercles, as large as or smaller than latter. Posterior lobe rugose transversally. Submedian carinae low, not extending to posterior half of lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded or angular, reflexed, explanate. Anterolateral projections elongate conical. Scutellum with lateral portions smooth; median depression extremely shallow, slightly rugose transversally, reddish, the red color continuing onto posterior process. Scutellar process short, from one-third to onehalf as long as main body of sclerite, subconical, subhorizontal, rounded apically in dorsal and truncate with upper portion elevated, in lateral view . Hemelytra extending close to apex of abdomen. Corium and membrane black; corium with red spots at base and subapically. Base of clavus light colored. Veins of corium and extreme base of membrane margined with yellow to varied degree. Legs black, with fore femora 4.5-6.0 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with subapical pair of small denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened at center longitudinally in female. Urosternites delicately striate transversally; setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about their own diameter. Suture between second and third urostemite well developed. Venter black. Connexivum black; connexival plates with transversal red markings on posterior fourth dorsally and on posterior third ventrally. Light portion of ventral connexival segments extending in some specimens shortly onto urosternites. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with lateral projections; entire lateral endosoma processes covered by denticles.
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus (Champion) Figures 81, J; lOA; 12B; 14A, B; 243-245 Lamus rufotuberculatus Champion, 1899, p. 210, pl. 12, figs. 27, 27a. Triatoma rufotuberculata: Neiva, 1914a, p. 61. Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus: Pinto, 1931, p. 118. Lent and Pifano, 1940, p. 634, figs. 1-2. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 426, figs. I (part), 2 (part), 195-217. Mestor rufotuberculatus: Usinger, 1939, p. 40; 1944, p. 45, pl. 8, fig.D. Triatoma coxo-rufa Campos, 1932, p. 3. Length of male 24-27 mm, of female 25-28 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 6-7 mm, of abdomen of male 8-9 mm, of female 9-IO mm Overall color dark brown or black, with light yellowish brown or red markings on head, neck, thorax, legs, and abdomen; hemelytra tinged with pale green, their markings dark brown. Integument of dorsal body surface with conspicuous golden colored adpressed setae, many scalelike . Head blackish, including antenniferous tubercles, genae, bucculae, and entire under surface of head. Clypeus reddish, black only at base; dorsal surface of head with elongate reddish mark extending longitudinally along center, approximately Y-shaped, bifurcate anteriorly, extending from level of jugae to interocellar space. Head short and wide, its surface rugose and punctate; ratio length of head to width across eyes 1:0.65-0.80. Head from slightly to considerably shorter than pronotum (l:l.15- 1.45). Anteocular region three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.35); postocular with sides rounded, strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus distinctly widened posteriorly, bilobed apically in many specimens . Genae tapering distally, falling short of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt. Posterior portion of head much higher than anterior, slightly convex above in lateral view. Eyes large in most specimens, in lateral view surpassing level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.30-1.85; very rarely male, 1:2.3, female 1:3.3. Antenniferous tubercles with obsolescent apicolateral setiferous process. Antennae with first and second articles black. First antennal article slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second article with inclined stiff setae slightly longer than diameter of article, as well as with numerous short sensory hairs on under surface of article. Ratio of antenna( segments 1:3.0-3.5:2.2-2.8:1.9-2.3. Rostrum with first and second articles black, thirddark reddish brown. First article attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second ex- tending to level of neck. First rostral article with short, sparse setae, second and third with numerous long hairs, those on third segment longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 9-2.2:0.6-0. 7. Overall color of pronotum dark brown to black. Anterior lobe black, with anterolateral projections and discal and lateral tubercles red. Posterior lobe with part of submedian carinae, explanate portion of humeral angles and l + l small spots posterior to termination of submedian carinae, red; one large central spot adjacent to hind margin and l + l sublateral spots on disc of humeri, yellowish or orange red. Anterior lobe slightly convex, smooth, its ridges with numerous adpressed golden colored setae; l + l semiglobose discal and l + l smaller, subconical lateral tubercles present. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose. Submedian carinae extending over three-fourths of length of posterior lobe. Humeral angles salient, from narrowly rounded to subangular, narrowly explanate. Anterolateral projections strongly compressed dorsoventrally, subrectangular, their apex obliquely truncate, anterolaterally and slightly upwardly directed. Sterna and pleura dark, acetabula reddish. Scutellum black, posterior process apically or entirely red. Carinae limiting central depression red or black. Central depression narrow, strongly rugose transversally, rugosities extending onto base of posterior process. Lateral portion of scutellum smooth. Posterior process shorter than main body of scutellum, subconical, horizontal, not elevated at base, its apex rounded, suboval or subglobose. Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Color of hemelytra light brown, conspicuously tinged with pale green. Corium streaked with brown mostly along veins; membrane dotted with dark, outer membranal cell with compact dark area subbasally. Legs stout, fore femora 3.8-4. 7 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with three or four short denticles, rarely only two, in some specimens up to three minute accessory ones. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Overall color of legs dark brown or black, femora dorsally with longitudinal red stripes of varied extension and with red apical annulus. Venter convex, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter golden colored, numerous, slender, inclinate, well perceptible. Spiracles either adjoining connexival suture or distant from latter by not more than their own diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III normally developed. Urosternites dark brown to black; spiracles enclosed in small yellow spot. Connexivum spotted with light and dark, the light portions orange or rust-red and yellow. Each connexival segment with subrectangular dark spot at center, adjoining outer margin of segment, dorsally distant from, ventrally adjoining connexival suture. Connexival plates anteriorly with dark transversal band adjoining intersegmental suture , in some cases widened near connexival suture .and\or connected to median spot along outer connexival margin . MALE GENITALIA: Endosoma processes present in two pairs, those of proximal pair delicately denticulate apically.
Panstrongylus tupynambai@Panstrongylus tupynambai Lent Figures 246-248 Panstrongylus tupynambai Lent, 1942, p. 227, figs. 31-33. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 432, figs. 218-239. Length of male 22 mm, of female 25 mm; width of pronotum of male 5 mm, of female 6 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5 mm, of female 9 mm Overall color light reddish brown, with dark brown areas on pronotum, corium and connexivum. Body surface with short, sparse hairs, appearing glabrous. Head uniformly dark brown, neck reddish brown. Head shallowly rugose along middle above, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.60- 0. 75), and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1-1.2). Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (1:0.45-0.60), postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded but obscured from above by protruding ocelli. Clypeus widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head strongly elevated dorsally, highest at level of ocelli. Eyes in side view extending below level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. In dorsal view, eyes of male larger than those of female . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.0 in male, 1:2.9-3.2 in female. Antenniferous tubercles with very small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with inclined stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment as well as with numerous dedicate short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3:2.3:1.9. Rostrum as shown in figure 2480, E; first segment as long as or slightly longer than second, extending beyond level of anterior margin of eyes; second segment attaining level of center of neck. First and second rostral segments with very short inconspicuous setae, thus appearing glabrous under low magnification; third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:0.9-1.0:0.4. Pronotum with collar and anterior lobe reddish brown or dark brown. Posterior lobe reddish brown, with central dark brown marking on anterior half of space between submedian carinae; 1 + 1 wide dark markings on spaces between submedian and lateral carinae, extending from transversal sulcus to posterior margin of sclerite. Posterior margin of pronotum narrowly dark. Anterior lobe convex, with low elevated areas. Discal tubercles distinct but not large, rounded; lateral tubercles smaller, mere elevations of lateral carinae. Lateral markings of anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum forming slight but distinct angle. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral processes of pronotum short, rounded. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process dark or light brown. Scutellum heavily rugose; median depression well developed. Posterior scutellar process almost as long as main body of scutellum, slightly elevated, slender cylindrical, narrowly rounded apically. Hemelytra of male extending to apex of abdomen, but only to middle of seventh urotergite in female . Corium dark reddish brown, light reddish brown at base and narrowly along margin, as well as an irregular reddish spot subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell. Apex of corium almost black. Membrane uniformly dark brown, fumose. Legs uniformly reddish brown. Fore femora 5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of subapical denticles, and 0-2 smaller denticles further basad . Males with very small spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae, absent in females. Venter with short, inconspicuous setae. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by two or three times their own diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III obsolescent. Venter dark reddish brown. Connexivum reddish brown; anterior half or third of each connexival segment with black, subrectangular spot adjoining intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with l+l lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes denticulate apically.
Paratriatoma Barber@Paratriatoma Barber, 1938, p. 104, Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 62. Usinger, 1944, p. 47. Ryckman, 1971, p. 88. Lent and Jurberg, 1971, p. 39. Triatoma (laratriatoma) Lima, 1940, p. 188. Triatomini. Small insects (12.5-14.5 mm). Body not flattened. Body and appendages covered with numerous elongate, declinate or semierect, minutely spinose black setae. Head elongate subconical or ovoid, strongly convex above. Antenniferous tubercles situated behind middle of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. First rostral segment much shorter than second but longer than third; third without rostral organ. Fore lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles. Humeral angles rounded. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar spine narrowly subcylindrical. Legs with femora unarmed; spongy fossulae absent. Abdomen narrow. Venter convex, slightly flattened along middle longitudinally. Lateral portions of urosternites overlapping mesial portion of connexival segments, the latter connected to margin of urosternites by expandable membrane. Median process of pygophore narrowly triangular, pointed. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface delicately granulose. Body, antennae, and legs with very long erect or decumbent minutely spinulose setae; genae not projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus; eyes situated laterally behind middle of head; fourth antennal segment not or only slightly longer than any of the preceding; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present; fore and mid femora slightly incrassate, with a few small setiferous tubercles subapically but without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along midline. First instar nymph: Head, thorax, and abdomen uniformly pigmented, without conspicuous markings and not mottled; setae very elongate, spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; mesonotum in shape of transversal band, only very slightly longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates more than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; hind tarsi apically without specialized hairs; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows.
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber Figures 6F; SF; 22G; 25B, C, E, G, J; 26D; 249, 250 Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber, 1938, p. 104. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 78, figs. 19, 20. Usinger, 1944, p. 48, pl. l, fig.K, pl. 7, fig.C. Lent and Jurberg, 1971, p. 40, figs. 1-23. Paratriatoma hirsuta hirsuta Ryckman, 1967, p. 3; 1971, p. 88, figs. l, 2, 7. Paratriatoma hirsuta kamiensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 90, figs. 3, 8. Paratriatoma hirsuta papagoensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 91, fig.4. Paratriatoma hirsuta yumanensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 92, figs. 6, 9, 10. Paratriatoma hirsuta pimae Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 92, fig.5. Length of male 12.0-13.5 mm, of female 12.5-14.5 mm; width of thorax of male 3.0 mm, of female 3.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 3.5 mm, of female 5.0 mm Overall color pattern consisting of various shades of brown , from light yellow brown to dark brownish black; in dark specimens corium and legs distinctly lighter. Body integument polished. Entire insect with numerous long, dark, adpressed, decumbent or erect setae , except on urotergites and membrane of hemelytra. Head , rugose transversally along middle, with long forwardly inclined setae. Shape of head as shown in illustrations, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5-0.6), and about as long as pronotum (1:0.9-1.1). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.5-0.6); postocular with sides straight or convex, in many specimens widest behind middle. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, unusually wide on posterior half, limited posteriorly by transverse impression. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, inconspicuous. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining levels of under and upper surface of head, more distant from latter than from former. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.7-3.7. Ocelliferous elevations poorly developed. Antenniferous tubercles inserted near anterior margin of eyes. First article of antennae attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second article with numerous stiff, inclined setae slightly longer than diameter of article . Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2.9:2.6-3.0:1.3-1.9. Rostrum subcylindrical, with long setae on all articles. First article attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second extending to level of posterior border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.6:0.5-0. 7. Pronotum with anterior lobe slightly convex, without discal or lateral tubercles. Ridges beset with long setae. Posterior lobe rugose transversally, with submedian carinae obsolescent, distinctly perceptible only on anterior third of posterior lobe of pronotum. Humeri rounded. Long posteriorly directed setae scattered over sclerite. Anterolateral projections small, rounded or subconical. Scutellum coarsely rugose, in many cases darker than pronotum; median impression shallow but in most specimens distinct, limited by 1 + 1 distinct narrow carinae. Posterior process of scutellum varied in length, from as long as, to only half as long as, main body of sclerite. Process subcylindrical, horizontal, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male, extending to seventh or base of eighth urotergite in female. Corium darker than membrane, covered with numerous long setae. Legs short , fore femur 4.3-4.8 times as long as wide. Femora without denticles; spongy fossulae absent. Legs with numerous long adpressed or decumbent setae; femora additionally on under surf ace with long setae perpendicular to longitudinal axis of article . Abdomen convex below, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, more strongly so in female. Urosternites faintly striate transversally in central portion, irregularly wrinkled on lateral half of each side; microsculpture difficult to make out due to highly polished, reflective integument. Spiracles distant from lateral border of urostemites by several times their diameter. Connexivum wide dorsally , visible portion of ventral connexival plates narrow . Phallus as shown in figure 22G.
RHODNIINI PINTO@RHODNIINI PINTO Rhodniini Pinto, 1926a, p. 490. Psammolestiini (sic) Carcavallo, 1976, p. 348 (nomen nudum). Small- to medium-sized Triatominae of not more than 26 mm, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally or not. Body surface from smooth to moderately rugose, with very short bristles only. Head not strongly convex above. Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection. Antennae inserted near apex of head. Genae from slightly to considerably surpassing apex of clypeus, the latter slightly but distinctly widened apically. Ocelli situated posterolaterally behind eyes, in most cases inserted on conspicuous elevations behind interocular sulcus, the latter not fully developed. Head laterally behind eyes with callosities beset with setiferous tubercles. Second antennal segment with 4-6 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, and two ancillary trichobothria laterad of base of main row. Remaining setae of second antennal segment of uniform size. Anterolateral comers of scutellum each with small, polished mammiform process. Corium with veins distinct. Abdomen with urostemites covering part or all of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. MALE GENITALIA: Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge well developed. Basal plate struts transformed into short, platelike, curved or convoluted structures. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma large, subsemielliptical. Vesica not strongly sclerotized. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface rugosegranulose, with short simple spinulose setae; head not strongly convex above; genae slightly surpassing apex of clypeus; eyes situated well behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles without conspicuous apicolateral process; fourth antenna} segment shorter than some of the preceding; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present; femora subcylindrical or incrassate and compressed, but without denticles, trichobothria absent; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle. First instar nymph: Head, thorax, and legs mottled with light and dark, in addition to other markings; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second, and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; metanotum longer at middle than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates larger than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; hind tarsi apically without specialized hairs; setae of urotergites irregularly scattered. Eggs laid in masses or singly.
Rhodnius Stal@Rhodnius Stal, 1859, p. 104. Lent, 1948a, p. 298. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 487. Triatominae from 11 to 26 mm long; their general color light brown or straw-colored, with brown or blackish, occasionally reddish brown markings, scattered or in large spots and stripes; rarely black with reddish markings. Setae very short, inconspicuous. Head slender and elongate, subcylindrical, from two to three times as long as wide across eyes, in most cases longer than pronotum. Head granulose at sides before and behind eyes, its dorsal surface with a narrow median longitudinal ridge. Anteocular region in most species at least three times as long as postocular; postocular not more than twice as long as wide. Postocular callosities present but not prominent. Clypeus narrow, parallel-sided but widened at apex. Genae situated below level of clypeus, slightly surpassing the latter apically. Jugae inconspicuous, not salient. Postocular furrow shallow, interrupted, distinct only on lateral portions. Eyes from medium-sized to large. Ocelli well developed, inserted on small lateral protuberances, their distance slightly larger than dorsal interocular distance. Antenniferous tubercles short, insertion of antennae situated near apex of head. Antennae with first segment unusually short, attaining level of apex of clypeus; second article at least four and onehalf times as long as first, third slightly shorter than second (except in brethesi where third is longer than second), fourth shorter than the two preceding. Second article with five or six trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, their distance progressively larger toward apex of article, and with two ancillary trichobothria laterad of basal trichobothrium of main row. Rostrum attammg prostemum, slender, subcylindrical, slightly flattened dorsoventrally. First and third rostral segments very short, second about four times as long as first or third, only rarely (R. paraensis) slightly less than three times as long as first. Pronotum with sides carinate. Fore lobe simple; hind lobe granulose and rugose. Anterolateral angles shortly projecting, rounded or angular apically. Humeral angles rounded. I+ 1 submedian carinae extending from anterior border of fore lobe to posterior margin of posterior lobe. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, with depressed area at center; apical process short, subcylindrical, rounded apically. Prostemal groove narrow, with well-developed stridulatory sulcus. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen. Veins normally developed, included in most species in light-colored bands. Corium with short inconspicuous setae. Hind wing as in Triatoma, viz., with hamus extending to wing base, without apical cell, and secondary vein simple. Legs long and slender, with scattered short setae. Femora from parallel-sided to fusiform, without spines or tubercles. Tibiae of first and second pairs of legs with short spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Abdomen convex below, in some cases center of urostemites slightly flattened. Connexivum wide dorsally, ventral portion partially or entirely covered by stemite, in former case much narrower than dorsal portion. Spiracles distant from lateral border of urostemite. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with median process pointed, blunt, bifurcate or subrectangular. Articulatory apparatus with basal bridge well developed. Basal plate struts transformed into two short, basally connected convolute structures. Genitalia of female truncate, eighth and ninth tergites subvertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; head elongate, subcylindrical; antennae inserted at anterior third or fourth of anteocular region; lateral postocular callosities difficult to perceive; stridulatory sulcus more than twice as long as wide; femora from subcylindrical to fusiform. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; head elongate, anteocular region longer than wide. Eggs adhering to substrate, light colored, with subpolar constriction; operculum convex; chorion and operculum reticulate.
Rhodnius brethes@Rhodnius brethesi Matta Figures 91; 251-253 Rhodnius brethesi Matta, 1919a, p. 94, pl. 3, fig I; 1919b, p. 104. Lent, 1948a, p. 319, figs. 29-31. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 500, figs. I, 12, 31-44. Length of male 19.0-19.5 mm, of female 19-20 mm Maximum width of pronotum 4.0-4.5 mm, in both sexes; maximum width of abdomen 5-6 mm, in both sexes. General color black, with light brown spots and stripes on dorsal surface of head and neck, on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, connexivum, and ventral surface of abdomen. Head granulose, black, with narrow dorsal longitudinal stripe yellowish. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.45-0.50) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0. 75-0.80). Anteocular region between three and four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.30). Eyes large, attaining level of under and in lateral view attaining or closely approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.60- 0.85. Antennae black; ratio of antennal segments 1:4.5-5.5:6.0-7 .3:3. 9-4.1. First segment of rostrum attaining level of insertion of antennae, second extending beyond level of ocelli; third short. Ratio of rostral segments l:3.6-3.9:0.9-1.0. Neck black, with lightcolored stripe longitudinally along center. Pronotum black, with l+I submedian longitudinal light brown stripes extending from collar over submedian carinae to hind border of pronotum; stripes thus dividing pronotum into three black areas. Lateral borders of pronotum margined with light brown, from the somewhat pointed anterolateral angles to humeri. Scutellum black, with l + l basally unusually wide light brown carinae meeting at base of posterior process, with light color continuing on process. Legs entirely black. Hemelytra dark brown to blackish on corium and membrane, with veins included in prominent light brown bands. Legs uniformly dark brown, slender; fore femora about six times as long as wide. Connexivum with ventral portion narrowly visible, black dorsally and ventrally, each segment with orange or reddish rectangular spot on posterior half. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore finger-like, elongate subcylindrical, apically rounded .
Rhodnius dalessandroi@Rhodnius dalessandroi Carcavallo and Barreto Rhodnius brethesi D Alessandro, Barreto and Duarte, 1971, p. 162 (misidentification). Rhodnius dalessandroi Carcavallo and Barreto, 1976, p. 177, figs. 1-4. The published description and illustrations of this Rhodnius are not sufficient to recognize it. We have not examined this species in detail, and have not been able to include dalessandroi in our key.
Rhodnius domesticus@Rhodnius domesticus Neiva and Pinto Figures 254-256 Rhodnius domesticus Neiva and Pinto, 1923a, p. 22. Pinto, 1925a, p. 79, figs. 52, 53. Larrousse, 1927, p. 82, fig.7. Lent, 1948a, p. 323, figs. 32-37. Galvao, Mello, Ferreira and Leal, 1962,p. 57. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 505, figs. 2, 13, 45-61. Length of male 15-17 mm, of female 16.5-18.0 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 4 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.0 mm, of female 6-7 mm General color light orange-brown, with dark brown markings on several areas of body and appendages. Head dark, with dorsum narrowly light-colored longitudinally, about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and as long as or only slightly longer than pronotum (1:0. 95:1.0). Anteocular region from two and one-half to three times as long as postocular (l:0.3-0.4). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.3-1.5. Antennae with second article brown, turning black toward apex; third article with basal half black and apical half whitish or yellow; fourth yellow, its tip dark. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.7-5.8:3.5-4.0:2.3-2.5. Second rostral segment reaching neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:2.8-3.0:l.O. Neck light colored dorsally, with l + l submedian black stripes. Pronotum with submedian carinae and lateral ridges bright yellow. General color of fore lobe reddish brown. Submedian carinae with l + I mediad directed lightcolored projections; space between carinae and lateral margin with complex shaped light-colored areas. Anterolateral angles light colored, not prominent. Scutellum black; l+ 1 lightcolored carinae, shortly bifurcate at anterior extremity, meeting before base of posterior process, the latter light colored above. Hemelytra pale, with corium reddish brown and membrane faintly pigmented. Legs with coxae, trochantera, and femora uniformly dark brown; tibiae light brown with dark apical annulus. Legs slender; fore femora about five times as long as wide. Connexivum only very narrowly visible from below. Connexival segments dorsally with reddish brown spot on anterior half, spot emarginated posteriorly or with short pointed posterior projection. MALE GENITALIA: Median pygophore process large, lamellate, subquadrate .
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@Rhodnius ecuadoriensis Lent and Le6n Figures 257, 258 Rhodnius ecuadoriensis Lent and Le6n, 1958, p. 181, figs. 1-4. Lumbreras, 1960, p. 216, fig.3. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 510, figs. 3, 14, 62-73. Rhodnius pallescens Cornejo, 1958, p. 418, fig.(nee Barber). Length of male 12.5-13.5 mm, of female 14.5 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 2.5-3.0 mm, of female 2.8-3.2 mm, maximum width of abdomen of male 3.8-4.2, of female 4.8-5.2 mm General color light brown with dark brown markings on body and appendages, in form of stripes or small irregularly shaped spots, the latter especially conspicuous on legs. Head granulose, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and only little longer than pronotum (1:0.90-0.95). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.40-0.45). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.4. Second antennal segment light brown on basal three-fifths, slightly speckled with darker; apical two-fifths dark brown. Third segment darker on basal than on apical half. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.0- 5.5:4.0:2.7-3.l. Rostrum as shown in figure 2588; second segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of ocelli but not attaining neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.0-3.1:0.9. Neck light colored dorsally, dark at sides. Pronotum with anterior lobe granulose and posterior lobe granulose-rugose. Hind lobe light brown. Submedian carinae and lateral margins yellowish. Spaces between submedian carinae and between carinae and lateral margins speckled with dark spots forming two darkish, poorly defined stripes in each space mentioned. Anterolateral angles of pronotum not proininent. Scutellum with 2+2 distinct anterior light-colored carinae, fused into 1 + 1 at level of center of scutellum and into a single carina posteriorly, with light color extending onto upper surface of posterior process. Hemelytra straw colored including veins; spaces between veins with irregularly shaped dark stripes and spots, dotted with lighter. Legs light yellowish brown, mottled with dark brown, most conspicuously so on femora, comparatively stout, fore femora four and one-half times as long as wide. Abdomen light yellowish brown ventrally, irregularly mottled with dark brown. Connexivum narrowly visible from below. Dorsal connexival segments with faint dark brown spot on anterior third or half, also visible from below. Genitalia of male with median process of pygophore shortly triangular, its apex pointed .
Rhodnius nasutus@Rhodnius nasutus StAl Figures 259-261 Rhodnius nasutus StAI, 1859, p. 105. Lent, 1948a, p. 312, figs. 19-21. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 514, figs. 4, 15, 74-91. Rhodnius brumpti Pinto, 1925a, p. 76, figs. 47-51. Larrousse, 1927, p. 84, fig.8. Length of male 12.5-16.5 mm, of female 14-18 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 2.5-3.5 mm, of female 3.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 3.5-5.0 mm, of female 4-6 mm General color pale yellowish brown, frequently tinged with reddish, with faint darker brown spots on some regions of body and appendages. Head about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.35-0.40), distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.6-0. 7). Anteocular region slightly over three times as long as postocular (1:0.3). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.3. Antennae reddish brown with apex of second and apical half of third articles darker; ratio of antennal segments 1:6.2-7.0:3.2:2.5. Rostrum as shown in figure 2618; second segment attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:3.4-3.7:0.9-1.0. Neck light colored above, dark at sides. Pronotum with anterior lobe granulose and posterior lobe granulose-rugose, the latter with area between submedian carinae dark, faintly subdivided by median light-colored stripe; the 1 + 1 areas between submedian carinae and lateral border with dark stripes confluent, forming uniform dark area. Anterolateral processes of pronotum distinctly angular. Scutellum dark, with 1+ 1 light-colored carinae, shortly bifurcate anteriorly, fused posteriorly and continuing on to posterior process which is light colored above and dark at sides. Hemelytra light reddish brown, with veins narrowly pale yellow; veins of cells and apical extracellular space suffused with lighter color at center. Legs uniformly light reddish brown, slender, fore femora six times as long as wide. Abdomen yellowish brown, almost without spots. Connexivum narrowly visible from below, dorsally with not very prominent darker spots on anterolateral angle of each segment ; these spots in some cases with pointed posterior projection, or of washed-out appearance. Genitalia of male with median process of pygophore relatively short, wide at base, narrowly rounded apically.
Rhodnius neglectus@Rhodnius neglectus Lent Figures 262-264 Rhodnius sp. Correa and Lima, 1954, p. 267, figs. I, 2, 5-9, 11, 12, 19. Rhodnius neglectus Lent, 1954, p. 239, figs. 5, 7, 9, 12. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 519, figs. 5, 16, 92-109. Length of male 17 .5-19.0 mm, of female 18.5-20.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.0-6.5 mm, of female 6.0-7.5 mm General color light brown, with dark brown markings on head, pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum, and yellowish areas on abdomen ventrally, on connexivum and on coxae and trochantera. Head faintly granulose, about three times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.35-0.40), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.75-0.80). Anteocular region over three times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.30). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.95-1.20. First and second articles of antennae dark, third dark on basal and light colored on apical half, fourth dark on basal and apical fourths. Ratio of antennal segments 1:6.4-8.5:3.4-4.0:2.5-3.1. Rostrum as shown in figure 2648; second segment attaining neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.3-3.7:0.8-0.9. Neck light colored dorsally, dark at sides. Pronotum with anterior lobe almost entirely smooth, posterior lobe rugose- granulose. Submedian carinae extending from collar to hind border of pronotum, light yellowish brown; lateral margins of pronotum also light yellowish brown, light-colored border wider on hind than on fore lobe. Dark area between submedian carinae of hind lobe with light colored percurrent median longitudinal stripe; dark areas between submedian carinae and lateral margin interrupted by light-colored short stripe posteriorly, dark areas confluent on anterior two-thirds. Anterolateral angles of pronotum prominent, forwardly produced . Scutellum with 2+ 2 short but distinct anterior light-colored carinae, fused into l + 1 carinae at level of anterior third of scutellum and into a single carina posteriorly, with light color extending over entire dorsal surface of posterior process. Hemelytra dark brown, with veins lighter colored. Legs dark brown; coxae, trochantera, and short basal annulus of tibiae yellowish. Legs slender, approximately six times as long as wide. Abdomen with under surface of general brown color, but center of anterior urostemites yellow, thus wide percurrent yellow band extending along center of venter, in many cases extending onto metasternum. Connexivum narrowly visible from below, dorsally with anterior half or two-thirds brown, the remainder yellow. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore shortly subtriangular, wide at base, pointed apically .
Rhodnius neivai@Rhodnius neivai Lent Figures 24C, Q; 265-267 Rhodnius neivai Lent, 1953a, p. 170, figs. 1-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 525, figs. 6, 17, 110-127. Length of male 17-18 mm, of female 20-21 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.0 mm, of female 6.0-6.5 mm General color uniformly dark brown or blackish; rostrum, antennae, and ventral surface of abdomen reddish brown; second to fifth or sixth connexival segments dorsally and ventrally with small, irregularly shaped spot on posterolateral angles. Head granulose, two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.4), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.75-0.80). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3). Eyes comparatively small, in lateral view not quite attaining level of lower and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.0. Ratio of antennal segments 1:6.0-6.5:4.5-5.0:0.3. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second extending slightly beyond level of ocelli but not reaching neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.4-3.7:0.9-1.0. Pronotum without special features, uniformly dark. Anterior lobe granulose, with glabrous areas; posterior lobe rugose. Anterolateral angles blunt, not prominent. Scutellum with posterior process short, strongly tapering apically. Hemelytra falling considerably short of apex of abdomen, not extending much beyond base and at most reaching middle of seventh urotergite. Legs uniformly blackish, slender, fore femora approximately six times as long as wide. Abdomen with connexival segments narrowly visible ventrally. Dorsal connexival segments as described above . Genitalia of male with median process of pygophore simple, narrowly triangular.
Rhodnius pallescens@Rhodnius pallescens Barber Figures 268-270 Rhodnius pallescens Barber, 1932, p. 514, fig.I. Usinger, 1944, p. 35, pl. 7, fig.F. Lent, 1948a, p. 330, figs. 42-47. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 530, figs. 7, 18, 128-141. Rhodnius dunni Pinto, 1932, p. 324. Length of male 21.5, of female 22.0-23.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.5 mm, of female 4.5-5.0 mm, of abdomen of male 7 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm General color yellowish brown with dark brown spots, in many cases dotted with lighter. Head light colored longitudinally on dorsum, about two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.35-0.40), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.80- 0.85). Anteocular region slightly more than three times as long as postocular (1:0.30). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.15-1.30. Antennae of general body color, second article black on apical third or half, in some specimens third article darkened at base. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.9-6.6:4.6-5.3:3.1-3.5. Rostrum as shown in figure 2708; ratio of rostral segments 1:3.7-4.6:0.9-1.2. Neck light-colored dorsally, with 1 + l sublateral very dark stripes. Pronotum with anterior lobe slightly granulose, with irregularly shaped dark spots; posterior lobe rugose and granulose, overall aspect of hind lobe mottled. Scutellum dark, with 2+2 yellowish carinae on anterior portion, fused into 1 + I at level of center of scutellum, and into a single carina posteriorly, light color extending onto dorsal surface of scutellar process. In some cases, submedian carinae fused to form a single wide median longitudinal elevation. Hemelytra straw-colored, clouded with darker, some of the dark areas dotted with lighter color. Legs with femora and tibiae irregularly speckled with light and dark, slender, fore femora approximately seven and one-half times as long as wide. Abdomen light brown. Connexivum light yellowish brown, anterior half of each segment with rectangular dark spot, this spot in some cases lighter at center. Ventral visible portion of connexivum very narrow, patterned as dorsal portion. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore narrowly triangular .
Rhodnius paraensis@Rhodnius paraensis Sherlock, Guitton and Miles Figures 271, 272 Rhodnius paraensis Sherlock, Guitton and Miles, 1977, p. 71, figs. 1-11. Length of male 10.5-11.0 mm, of female 10.8-12.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 2.8 mm, of female 3.0 mm; width of abdomen of male and female 4 mm Overall color light brown, with very dark brown markings on body and appendages; hemelytra almost entirely dark . Head granulose, especially so on sides; its color light brown, with anteclypeus, genae, antenniferous tubercles, ocelliferous tubercles, lateral surface except behind eyes and entire under surface, dark brown, almost black. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region less than twice as long as postocular (1:0.65). In lateral view, eyes attaining level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.55. First antennal segment yellowish brown; second and basal three-fifths of third black, apical portion of third whitish; fourth white with short basal annulus dark. Antennal segments comparatively stout and short; ratio of segments 1:4.0:3.6:3.3. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.7:0.9. Neck black, yellowish brown at center and laterally. Pronotum with anterior lobe feebly granulose, posterior lobe distinctly, irregularly rugose. Pronotum dark brown, with lateral margins, 1 + 1 elongate longitudinal stripes enclosing submedian carinae and extending to hind border, as well as an elongate cuneiform longitudinal mark at center of hind lobe, yellowish brown. Anterolateral angles of pronotum not prominent . Scutellum with 1 + 1 distinct anterior light-colored carinae fused posteriorly into a single carina; light color extending along entire posterior process. Hemelytra dark brown; narrowly yellowish brown at base. Legs light yellowish brown, with coxae, one large basal and one large apical annulus on femora, apical fourfifths of fore tibia, and one large submedian and one large apical annulus on mid and hind tibiae, dark brown. Tarsi dark. Legs comparatively short and stout; femora fusiform; fore femora slightly less than three and one-half times as long as wide. Abdomen yellowish brown ventrally, irregularly clouded with dark. Connexivum narrowly visible from below. Dorsal and ventral connexival segments dark brown on anterior three-fifths and contrastingly light yellow on posterior two fifths . MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore wide, bifid .
Rhodnius pictipes@Rhodnius pictipes Stal Figures 5A, C; 6K; 91; IOF; 273-275 Rhodnius pictipes Stal, 1872, p. llO. Larrousse, 1927, p. 81, fig.5. Lent, 1948a, p. 314, figs. 22-28. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 535, figs. 8, 19, 142-158. Conorhinus limosus Walker, l873b, p. 18 (pro parte) Rhodnius amazonicus Almeida, Santos and Sposina, 1973, p. 43, figs. l-8 (new synonymy). Length of male 15-20 mm, of female 16.5-22.0 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male and female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5-7 mm, of female 5.5-8.0 mm General color yellowish brown, with dark brown spots on various body regions and appendages; overall aspect mottled . Head granulose, about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.95). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35). Eyes large, in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:0.80-0.85. Antennae with second article yellow on basal and black on apical half; third article yellow with dark subbasal annulus. Ratio of antennal segments l:5.9-6.3:3.9-4.7:2.6-3.1. Rostrum as shown in figure 2758; second segment attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:3. 9-4.5:0. 9-1.2. Neck light-colored dorsally, with I+ I dark sublateral stripes. Pronotum with posterior lobe granulose-rugose; basic color dark brown or black, with granules light colored; overall aspect mottled. Median longitudinal stripe, 1 + 1 submedian carinae and lateral borders yellowish; dark area between carinae and lateral border in many cases with irregular median recurrent stripe yellowish. Scutellum with 2+2 distinct basal light-colored carinae, fused into 1 + 1 at central portion of scutellum and into a single carina posteriorly, with light color extending to upper surface of scutellar process. Hemelytra straw-colored; corium with numerous irregular small dark spots; membrane rugose; intracellular and extracellular areas dark, with central faintly lighter colored confluent spots. Legs yellowish. Coxae, trochantera, and especially femora spotted and mottled with dark brown, dark pigment forming irregular network on femora. Tibiae yellowish, with blackish brown annulus on basal third and on apex. Legs slender, femora approximately six times as long as wide. Abdomen light yellowish brown, areolate, with dark brown spots. Dorsal surface of connexivum yellow; anterior half of each segment bearing rectangular dark spot with light-colored center; each dark spot with posterior border drawn out into narrow point approaching posterior border of tergite; visible ventral portion of connexival segments only with simple rectangular spot. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore wide, deeply emarginated, bispinose .
Rhodnius prolixus@Rhodnius prolixus Stal Figures 9K; 12E; 14F; 238; 290; 3lC, D; 276-278 Rhodnius prolixus Stal, 1859, p. 104, pl. 6, fig.III. Brumpt, 1913, p. 633, figs. 433, 434. Larrousse, 1927, p. 79, fig.4. Usinger, 1944, p. 36, pl. 7, fig.E. Lent, 1948a, p. 304, figs. 2-18. Gamboa, 1963, p. 18. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 540, figs. 9, 10, 20, 159-206. Ramfrez Perez, 1969, p. 11. Conorhinus limosus Walker, 1873b, p. 18 (pro parte). Length of male 17.5-20.0 mm, of female 19.5-21.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.5 mm, of female 4-5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.0 mm, of female 6-7 mm General color light yellowish brown, with dark brown markings on various regions of body and appendages. Head dark yellowish brown, granulose at sides; dorsally with narrow light-colored percurrent stripe extending from clypeus to neck, this region not granulose but shortly setose, rest of dorsal surface of head dark, only faintly granulose. Head about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.45), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Anteocular region approximately three, rarely up to four times as long as postocular (l:0.20-0.35). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.0-1.5. Antennae dark, with apical three-fifths of third article, and fourth article entirely except tip, whitish. Ratio of antennal segments l:5.0-6.8:3.7-4.8:2.7-2.9. Rostrum as shown in figure 2788. Second rostral segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of ocelli but not extending to neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:3.2-4.0:0.8-1.0. Pronotum with submedian carinae and lateral margins light yellowish brown. Posterior lobe with two dark brown, distinctly separated longitudinal stripes between submedian carinae and on each side between submedian carinae and lateral margin. Anterolateral angles of pronotum not very prominent. Scutellum dark, with I+ I light yellowish brown carinae, somewhat widened anteriorly and fused at base of scutellar process, the latter light colored above. Hemelytra with veins narrowly margined with pale yellow, remainder of hemelytron dark brown, uniform on corium, brown areas on membrane observable with diffuse illumination. Legs uniformly brownish ; femora in some instances darker on certain areas; tibiae darker at apex, slender, about six times as long as wide. Ventral surface of abdomen in many specimens rather uniformly dark brown, in some individuals yellowish with dark markings, much as in robustus. Connexivum narrowly visible from below, or completely covered by urosternites. Connexival segments dorsally yellowish brown, each with elongate dark brown spot in anterolateral area, in many cases extending far backward, with pigment becoming attenuated and hind border of spot of irregular shape, but in no case attaining posterior border of segment; spots also visible ventrally. Phallus as shown in figure 238; struts in figure 278E. Median process of pygophore narrow, pointed apically .
Rhodnius robustus@Rhodnius robustus Larrousse Figures 279-281 Rhodnius robustus Larrousse, 1927, p. 85, fig.9. Lent, 1948a, p. 327, figs. 38-41. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 550, figs. 11, 21, 207-219. Length of male 20.0-23.5 mm, of female 23-26 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 5-6 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 6-7 mm, of female 6.0-7.5 mm General color yellowish brown, with very dark brown markings on various regions of body and appendages. Head very dark brown, granulose laterally and ventrally; dorsally with narrow light-colored median longitudinal stripe extending from clypeus to neck. Head two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.70-0.80). Anteocular region approximately four times as long as postocular (1:0.25). Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.75-1.00. Antennae with second article uniformly blackish brown, third light yellow except dark brown basal fourth; fourth article light colored. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:7 .6-10.2:5.4-6.3:3 .4-4.4. Rostrum as shown in figure 281A; second segment extending beyond level of ocelli, almost attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:4.1-4.4:0.9-1.0. Pronotum as inprolixus, but anterolateral angles less prominent . Scutellum as in prolixus. Hemelytra dark brown, veins very conspicuously although narrowly bordered with light color; space between veins uniformly dark on corium, suffused with light on membrane. Legs with coxae and trochantera partially or entirely dark; femora reddish brown, tibiae of identical color or yellowish brown, darker at apex. Legs slender, fore femora about seven times as long as wide. Abdomen in some specimens rather uniformly dark brown ventrally, but in most brown speckled with yellow; longitudinal percurrent dark line along center, widened slightly at middle of each segment; venter also on each segment with 1 + 1 submedian oblique and 1 + 1 sublateral longitudinal marks. Connexivum narrowly visible from below or completely covered by urostemites; dorsally light yellowish brown, each segment with large brownish black spot occupying at least anterior half of each segment, with posterior narrowly pointed projection. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore narrow, pointed apically . Basal plate struts as shown in figure 281E.
Psammolestes Bergroth@Psammolestes Bergroth, 1911, p. 144. Lima, 1934, p. 1155. Lent, 1935, p. 384. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 151. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 349. Small, short bodied, somewhat dorsoventrally compressed Triatominae, 12-15 mm long; general color light yellowish brown, with diffuse darker markings. Setae very short, inconspicuous. Head compressed dorsoventrally, short, only slightly longer than wide across eyes, and shorter than pronotum. Anteocular region from two to three times as long as postocular; postocular very short, from one fourth to onethird as long as wide. Callosities behind eyes strongly developed, beset with setiferous tubercles. Clypeus short, parallel-sided or slightly widened apically. Posterior portion of genae situated below level of clypeus; genae slightly or distinctly surpassing clypeus. Jugae inconspicuous. Postocular furrow obsolete, distinct only as sulcus near hind border of eyes. Eyes medium sized. Ocelli well developed, inserted on protuberances behind above-mentioned sulcus, their distance slightly larger than dorsal interocular distance. Antenniferous tubercles short; antennal insertion closer to apex of head than to anterior margin of eyes. First antenna} segment extremely short, second the longest, third as long as or slightly shorter than second, fourth shorter than the two preceding. Second article with 4+4 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, and two ancillary trichobothria laterad of basal one of main row. Rostrum strongly flattened dorsoventrally, first and third segments short, subequal, second segment twice as long as first. Apical segment rounded and centrally emarginate distally. Pronotum with sides carinate; its surface smooth, without tubercles or granules. Humeral angles rounded. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, slightly depressed anteriorly at center. Apical process short and stout, distinctly tapering distally. Prosternal groove wide, with well developed stridulatory sulcus. Mesosternum bigibbous. Hemelytra attaining or almost attaining apex of abdomen; their veins normally developed. Hind wings much as in Triatoma, but secondary vein strongly curved. Legs short, stout without spines or tubercles. Femora and tibia laterally compressed, the femora very conspicuously so. Femora grooved longitudinally for reception of tibiae. Tibiae of first and second pairs with short spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Abdomen convex below, small central area on each urosternite somewhat flattened. Connexivum wide dorsally, ventral portion partially covered by urosternites. Spiracles distant from lateral border of urosternites. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short median spinelike process, pointed or rounded apically. Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge well developed. Pedicel about as long as wide. Basal plate struts transformed into short curved or convoluted structures. Genitalia of female truncate, last tergites subvertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; head short and wide; antennae inserted close to middle of anteocular region; lateral postocular callosities prominent; stridulatory sulcus less than twice as long as wide; femora incrassate, compressed laterally. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; head short, anteocular region approximately as long as wide. Eggs agglutinate, dark, with subapical constriction; operculum flattened; chorion and operculum punctured, without hexagonal pattern.
Psammolestes arthuri@Psammolestes arthuri (Pinto) Figures 58; 9H; IOG; 248, G, S; 29P; 31A, 8; 282-284Eutriatoma arthuri Pinto, 1926b, p. 86 Psammolestes arthuri: Pinto and Lent, 1935, p. 333, figs. l, 3, 4. Torrealba, 1937, p. 31. Pifano, 1938, p. 241, figs. 1-5. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 366, figs. 3, 6 9, 12, 15, 61-78. Length of male 11-13 mm, of female 12-14 mm Width of pronotum of male 3.0-3.5, of female 3.2-4.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 4-5 mm, of female 4.5-5.5 mm General color pale straw yellow with scattered brownish spots, setae short, golden colored, Integument shining, appearing varnished. Head distinctly longer than wide (1:0.80-0.85) and as long as or shorter than pronotum (1:0.95-1.15), dorsally with wide longitudinal percurrent yellowish stripe occupying entire dorsal interocular space, tapering anteriorly and posteriorly, covering clypeus as well as interocellar space and center of neck. Lateral portions of neck dark. Anteocular region almost three times as long as postocular (1:0.35-0.40). Clypeus parallelsided; genae parallel, inconspicuous, attaining or slightly surpassing clypeus. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining level of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.65-1.90. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.5-4.0:4.0-5.0:3.0-4.0. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.9-2.2:0.7-0.8. Long hairs present only on apex of second and on third rostral segments. Pronotum conspicuously flattened, light brown; densely beset with short yellowish setae except on smooth dark areas on fore lobe. Anterolateral angles pronounced, pointed, projecting forward to level of ocelli and postocular callosities. Anterior lobe with 1 + l anterolateral, more or less oval, dark spots, and lateral and submedian dark glabrous spots of irregular shape. Posterior lobe rugose, depressed anteriorly, sublaterally on each side with a distinct longitudinal depression, separating humerus from disc of pronotum. Hind margin of pronotum slightly rounded. Scutellum as shown in figures 282, 283. Hemelytra of male attaining, those of female falling very slightly short of, apex of abdomen. . Overall color of hemelytra yellowish, cells of membrane only slightly darkened. Legs with femora light brown, with irregularly scattered dark brown spots. Tibiae dark brown, with lightcolored basal annulus. Abdomen with venter yellowish brown, irregularly reticulated with dark. Connexival segments dark brown, their posterior third or fourth irregularly yellowish. Genitalia of male with basal plate struts large, fused at base ; dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma slightly angular distally . Eggs arranged in well-developed egg mass .
Psammolestes coreodes@Psammolestes coreodes Bergroth Figures 12D; 13D; 14E; 23A; 285-287 Psammolestes coreodes Bergroth, 1911, p. 144. Mazza, 1936b, p. 33, figs. 32-38. Abalos and Wygodzinsy, 1951, p. 151, figs. 33, 50, 54, 299-318. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 354, figs. 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16-17, 19-33. Length of male 12-14 mm, of female 13.5-15.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.0 mm, of female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5.5 mm, of female 6.0 mm General color light yellowish brown, speckled and spotted irregularly with dark brown or blackish; setae short, golden colored, Integument dull, slightly rugose. Head as long as or slightly longer than wide (l:0.8-1.0), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2-1.3); its color yellowish dorsally, irregularly mottled with dark brown. Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (l:0.45-0.55). Clypeus slightly widened anteriorly. Genae conspicuous, strongly diverging, considerably surpassing clypeus. Eyes large, in lateral view attaining or not, but not surpassing, level of lower and closely approaching level of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.60-1.65. Ocelli inserted on conspicuous elevations; head strongly declivous behind ocelli. Antennae yellowish, spotted with dark; second article entirely dark apically, third darkened submedially. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-4.4:3.5-4.5:2.5-3.1. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.1-2.3:0.9-1.0. Long hairs present on entire second and on third rostral segment. Pronotum not conspicuously flattened, of general body color; fore lobe and anterolateral angles with small irregularly shaped black areas. Anterolateral angles flattened, acuminate, short, not attaining level of ocelli. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, median depression slight, posterior process narrowly tapered apically. Hemelytra of male attaining, of female approaching, apex of abdomen. Hemelytra of general body color, cells of membrane distinctly darkened. Legs light brown, with Irregularly scattered dark brown spots. Abdomen with venter yellowish brown, irregularly reticulated with dark, and with longitudinal rows of dark spots. Connexival segments yellowish, most specimens with two distinct dark brown spots along lateral margin, rest of connexival segment with irregularly distributed smaller dark spots. Genitalia of male with basal plate struts very small, separated, hookshaped ; dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma semielliptical . Eggs agglutinated but not forming regular egg masses.
Psammolestes tertius@Psammolestes tertius Lent and Jurberg Figures 288-290 Psammolestes tertius Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 359, figs. 2, 5, 8, 11, 14, 34-60. Psammolestes coreodes Lima, 1934, p. 1155, figs. 1-2. Lent, 1935, p. 382, figs. 1-6. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 75, figs. 3-4. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, fig.18 (nee Bergroth). Length of male 11.5-12.5 mm, of female 12.5-13.5 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 4 mm, of female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male and female 5.5-6.0 mm General color light yellowish brown with scattered dark brown spots. Integument dull, with short golden colored setae. Head slightly longer than wide across eyes (1:0.85-0.95) and from slightly to distinctly shorter than pronotum (l:l.05-1.20); its color dorsally from yellowish brown with scattered small dark spots to rather uniformly dark with narrow percurrent yellowish median longitudinal line. Anteocular region from two to two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4-0.5). Clypeus slightly widened anteriorly. Genae conspicuous, strongly divergent, surpassing clypeus considerably. Eyes large, in lateral view attaining level of under and closely approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.6. Ocelli inserted on distinct elevations, the latter somewhat less prominent than in coreodes. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.3-6.3:4.1-5.2:3.1-3.6. Rostrum as shown in figure 290C. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.0-2.3:0.85-1.0. Long hairs present on entire second and third rostral segments. Pronotum not conspicuously flattened, of general body color; anterior lobe with numerous dark brown spots. Anterolateral angles very short, not prominent. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, median depression small and shallow, posterior process narrowly tapering toward apex. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in both sexes, of general body color, with cells of membrane distinctly darkened. Legs of body color, with irregularly scattered dark spots . Abdomen and connexivum as in coreodes. Genitalia of male with basal plate struts of medium size, separated, broadly S- shaped; dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma broadly rounded apically. Eggs adhering to substrate, not forming regular egg masses.
CAVERNICOLINI USINGER@CAVERNICOLINI USINGER Cavemicolini Usinger, 1944, p. 32. Small Triatominae of not more than 13 mm, not flattened. Body surface smooth, without granulations or conspicuous rugosities, covered with long delicate hairs. Head strongly convex above. Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection. Genae inapparent, not extending beyond apex of clypeus. Ocelli not elevated, inconspicuous, situated in or immediately behind interocular sulcus, the latter strongly backwardly curved and almost attaining level of posterior border of head. Femora short, thickened. Corium with veins obsolescent. Abdomen elongate oval. Urosternites covering part of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. Articulatory apparatus of phallus of male without basal plate bridge. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface smooth, with long simple setae; head strongly convex dorsally;. eyes situated laterally at middle of head; antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process; fourth antennal segment much longer than any of the remaining; third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; fore and mid femora strongly incrassate, without denticles, but all femora with trichobothria; tarsi elongate, fore tarsi about half as long as tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle. First instar nymph: Head, thorax, and legs uniformly dark; all setae simple; fourth antennal segment longer than first, second and third combined; mesonotum in shape of narrow transversal band, not longer at middle than at sides; metanotal plates very smalJ, their distance much larger than twice their width; femora with trichobothria; hind tarsi without specialized hairs; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows.
Cavernicola Barber@Cavernicola Barber, 1937a, p. 60. Usinger, 1944, p. 32. Lent and Jurberg, 1969b, p. 318. General color brown, with yellowish markings. Head oval, about twice as long as wide across eyes, strongly convex dorsally; anteocular and postocular regions subequal in length. Interocular furrow shallow, extending backward almost to hind border of head. Eyes small. Ocelli obsolescent. Antennae inserted close to anterior border of eye. First antennal segment short; the remaining progressively longer from second to fourth. Second antennal segment with three closely spaced subbasal trichobothria, as well as one median and one subapical one. Remaining setae of second segment not of uniform size. Rostrum attaining prostemum, with first and third segments very short, second much longer. Pronotum convex, strongly declivous anteriorly, its surface dull, smooth, or faintly rugose, without dorsal or lateral tubercles. Sides of pronotum rounded, not carinate; posterior lobe with l + l narrow submedian carinae attaining hind border, latter with edge narrowly margined. Humeri rounded. Scutellum with disc elevated, convex; posterior process much shorter than disc, blunt, subvertical. Prostemal sulcus without stridulatory groove and without lateral tubercles. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen. Veins normally developed, but difficult to perceive on corium. Hind wings comparatively short and wide, anal lobe very wide; hamus attaining base of wing; distinct apical cell present; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs with femora widened, fusiform without denticles. Spongy fossae of tibiae absent in both sexes. Tarsi elongate. Abdomen convex below. Connexivum wide dorsally, perceptible ventral portion very narrow, only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates. Genitalia of male. Pygophore with median process platelike, bifurcate apically. Phallus with articulatory apparatus without basal plate bridge; pedicel extremely short. Basal plate struts short, somewhat curved, apically continued into short, subrectangular sclerotization. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. V esica not conspicuously sclerotized. Genitalia of female subconical, terminal tergites subhorizontal. First and fifth nymphal instars as described for tribe; prostemum without stridulatory sulcus.
Cavernicola pilosa@Cavernicola pilosa Barber Figures 6H; 7E, F; 9F, G; 15B, C; 23C; 25A, C, H, K; 26C; 29F; 31E, F; 291-293 Cavernicola pilosa Barber, 1937a, p. 61, 2 figs. Usinger, 1944, p. 33, pl. 7, fig.D. Lent and Jurberg, 1969b, p. 318, figs. 1-28. Length of male 11.0-11.5 mm, of females 12.0-13.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 3.0-3.2 mm, of female 3.5-4.0 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male. 4.0-4.5, of female 4.5-5.0 mm Body abundantly pilose except membrane of hemelytra; general color from dark brown to piceous, except stramineous on corium, veins of hemelytra, wedge-shaped area adjacent to inner cell of membrane, and coxae, trochantera, and base of femora. Head as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 2938, C, fusiform, slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region as long as postocular, the latter elongate with sides gradually converging toward behind, in dorsal view. Eyes small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of ventral and distant from level of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to interocular distance 1:2.6-2.9. First antenna} segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Ratio of antennal segments 1: 2. 7- 3. 0:4. 3-4. 6:4. 9-5. 0. Trichobothria of second antennal segment several times as long as diameter of segment, their distribution as shown in figure 9F, G. Rostrum with first segment very short, not attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment very long, attaining level of hind border of head; third segment short. Ratio of rostral segments 1:4.2: 1.2. Pronotum as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 293E. Anterolateral angles with short apically somewhat rounded processes. Scutellum with posterior process subhorizontal, rounded apically . Prosternum as illustrated . Hemelytra as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 2930. Corium more than twothirds of length of hemelytron. Hind wings with m-cu and section of M between mcu and R + M of identical length, not forming conspicuous angle. Cu bent apically so as to meet R + M, forming large closed cell. Hamus bifurcate apically. Legs as in generic description and figures 291, 292. Fore femora about 4.5 times as long as wide. Abdomen with spiracles remote from connexival suture . Phallus as in generic description and figure 23C. Pygophore of male with apically bifurcate median process .
BOLBODERINI USINGER@BOLBODERINI USINGER Bolboderini Usinger, 1944, p. 28. Small species of less than 12 mm long, their body distinctly compressed dorsoventrally. Body integument rugose and with small setigerous granules; body and appendages only with short hairs. Antenniferous tubercles with apicolateral spinelike projection. Genae salient, large, spinelike or platelike, projecting beyond apex of clypeus at least by distance equal to width of clypeus apically. Ocelli situated somewhat before middle of disc of postocular portion of head, not elevated, inconspicuous. Second antennal segment with 1-4 trichobothria arranged in a single row. Remaining setae of second antennal segment of uniform size. Prosternum with well-developed stridulatory sulcus. Legs short, femora thickened. Urosternites covering part of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. Articulatory apparatus of genitalia of male with basal plate bridge present. Structure of phallus varied. Fift instar nymph. Body surface from slightly rugose to heavily granulose, with short spinulose or scalelike setae. Head not strongly convex dorsally; genae surpassing clypeus by distance equal to width of clypeus apically; eyes situated laterally behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles with conspicuous apicolateral process; fourth antennal article only very slightly longer than longest of the others; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present; fore and mid femora from subcylindrical to slightly incrassate, with or without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle. First instar nymph: Overall color light, with more or less extensive dark areas on body and appendages, but never mottled; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; mesonotum longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates more than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; posterior tarsi apically without specialized hairs.
Bolbodera Valdes@Bolbodera Valdes, 1914, p. 101. Bruner and Fracker, 1926, p. 247. Usinger, 1941, p. 49; 1944, p. 28. Callotriatoma Usinger, 1939, p. 35. Triatominae of less than 10 mm in length; general color black. Head elongate fusiform, about twice as long as wide. Genae pointed, very slightly compressed laterally at base, surpassing clypeus, the latter widened subbasally, tapering at base; bucculae fully exposed. Postocular region subglobose. Postocular furrow well perceptible, broadly U-shaped. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining levels of upper and lower surface of head. Ocelli small but normally developed, situated on dorsal surface of head, slightly mesad of inner tangent of eyes. Antennae inserted apical of center of anteocular region. Second antenna} segment the longest, third and fourth subequal, shorter than second but longer than first. Second segment with one trichobothrium. Rostrum attaining prostemum, subcylindrical, only slightly compressed dorsoventrally; first segment short, attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second about twice as long as first; third the shortest. Pronotum with anterior lobe narrow; median constriction prominent. Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal tubercles and with 1 + 1 acute projections on lateral margin posteriorly. Anterolateral angles large, strongly tapering apically. Posterior lobe carinate laterally, with 1 + 1 abbreviated submedian carinae; humeral angles obtuse. Scutellum subtriangular, without anterolateral projections; posterior process subcylindrical, more than half as long as scutellum. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner membranal cell near inner angle of cell, running straight to base of hemelytron where it meets claval suture. R + M distinct, not connected by small branch to Sc, apical subdivision into R and M well perceptible. Hind wings with hamus extending to base of wing; secondary vein simple. Legs comparatively slender. Under surface of femora with large conical denticles arranged singly or in pairs, subequal in size. Tibia slender, cylindrical. Spongy fossulae absent. Tarsi elongate, three segmented. Venter abruptly flattened at center. Connexivum wide, without dorsal longitudinal ridge, its margins reflexed. Spiracles remote from apparent connexival suture. Genitalia not examined. Fifth instar nymph (not seen, characters deduced from those of adult). With the characters of the tribe; setae not scalelike; genae spinelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; femora with large denticles; tibiae without spongy fossulae; tarsi elongate, several times as long as diameter of tibiae apically.
Bolbodera scabrosa@Bolbodera scabrosa Valdes Figures 96, 296, 297 Bolbodera scabrosa Ms. Uhler Bolbadea leabrusa Valdes, 1910, p. 435 (sic) Bolbodera scabrosa Valdes, 1914, p. 101. Brunerand Fracker, 1926, p. 248, fig.1. Usinger, 1941, p.49; 1944, p. 29, pl. 7, fig.B. Alayo, 1967, p 28, pl. 7, fig.1Callotriatoma cubana Usinger, 1939, p. 37, pl. I. Male. Length 8.8 mm; maximum width of pronotum 2.3 mm, of abdomen 3.4 mm Head coarsely granulose, with short inconspicuous setae, black, twice as long as wide (1:0.55), slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.95). Anteocular region about one-fourth longer than postocular (1:0.8). Genae, eyes and ocelli as in generic description and figures 296, 297 A, B. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.1. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.2:1.7:1.8. Rostrum with sparse, short, inconspicuous setae; ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5:0.6. Neck testaceous. Pronotum and upper portion of propleura uniformly red; rest of thorax, including scutellum, black. Pronotum rugose-granulose; median constriction conspicuous; posterior lobe one and one-half times as wide as fore Jobe. Scutellum rugose; posterior process subcylindrical, as long as disc of pronotum. Hemelytra black, with corium red on its posterior two-thirds; a whitish line separating corium from membrane. Corium irregularly rugose, more strongly so on basal angle, falling distinctly short of level of apex of inner cell of membrane, and extending to level of center of fifth connexival segment. Legs uniformly black, their structure as in generic description and figure 297C. Femora with four or five denticles. Fore femora 4.3 times as long as wide, widest at middle. Abdomen black. Connexivum pink or red, with anterolateral angles of segments IV and V black; connexival segments VI-IX entirely black.
BELMINUS STAL@BELMINUS STAL Belminus 1943c, p. Stal, 498. 1859, Usinger, p. 101; 1944, 1868, p. 31. p. Herrer, 123. Lent, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 85. Marlianus Distant, 1902, p. 191. Small Triatominae of 8.5-12.0 mm in length; general color black. Body surface granulose and rugose. Head elongate fusiform, two and one-half to three times as long as wide. Genae compressed laterally, platelike, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus. and leaving part of bucculae exposed. Clypeus approximately parallel-sided, slightly tapering at base. Postocular region with sides subparallel or convex. Postocular furrow perceptible, broadly Ushaped. Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. Ocelli small or obsolescent, laterally oriented, situated at or slightly laterad of levels Fm. 295. Cladogram of the hypothesized relationships of the genera of Bolboderini. of inner tangents of eyes. Antennae inserted slightly apicad of middle of anteocular region. Second and fourth antennal segments the longest, third slightly shorter. Second segment with four trichobothria arranged in one row. Rostrum attaining prosternum, subcylindrical, only very slightly compressed dorsoventrally; first and second segments elongate, subequal in length, third very short. Pronotum with fore lobe narrow; median constriction prominent. Anterior lobe granulose, with 7 + 7 discal tubercles. Anterolateral angles salient. Posterior lobe of pronotum with sides carinate; submedian carinae almost attaining posterior margin; surface of lobe heavily rugose transversally. Scutellum triangular, with l + l lateral subtriangular projections; posterior process subconical or slightly flattened, as long as main body of scutellum. Hemelytra falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner membranal cell near inner angle of cell very close to claval suture, meeting claval suture halfway to base of hemelytron, forming very narrow triangle with claval suture. R + M from distinct to obsolescent, not connected by small branch to Sc; divided apically into separate R and M. Corium heavily rugose transversally. Hind wings with hamus abbreviated. Secondary vein simple. Legs short. Under surface of femora with one to three denticles, one much larger than remaining. Tibiae slender, slightly curved, distinctly compressed laterally, with distinct ventral carina. Spongy fossulae absent. Tarsi medium sized, three segmented. Venter abruptly flattened at center. Connexivum wide dorsally, perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-third to one-fourth as wide as dorsal connexival plates. Dorsal connexival segments with conspicuous longitudinal ridge. Spiracles very close to apparent connexival suture. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with median process short, pointed. Articulatory apparatus with stapes slightly longer than wide; pedicel narrow and very elongate. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint; struts narrow, subparallel, not fused. Genitalia of female. Truncate apically, terminal tergites subvertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; setae not scalelike; first and second rostral segments subequal in length; genae platelike; laterally compressed, apex rounded in side view; femora with large denticles; tibiae without spongy fossulae; tarsi elongate, several times as long as diameter of tibiae apically. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; first rostral segment over half as long as second; spongy fossulae absent; setae of urotergites in two distinct transverse rows.
Belminus costaricensis@Belminus costaricensis Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky Figures 298-300 Triatoma rugulosa Neiva, 1913a, p. 74 (nee St41). Belminus rugolusus: Picado, 1913, p. 347 (sic; nee St41). Belminus rugulosus: Usinger, 1944, p. 31, pl. 7, fig.A. (nee St41). Belminus eostarieensis Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 95, figs. 42-48. Length of male 8.5 mm, of female 9 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 2.3, of female 3 mm, maximum width of abdomen of male 3.5 mm, of female 5 mm General color black, with yellow or orangebrown spots on membrane of hemelytr a and on abdomen. Head two and one- 1Spanish version of key, p. 482. half times as long as wide (l:0.35), distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Clypeus with anterior margin slightly rounded. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.5). Hind lobe of head oval, widest anteriorly with sides distinctly converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.4. Ocelli small but distinct. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle very short, barely projecting beyond base of first antennal segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.0:1.8:2.0. Rostrum with first segment closely approaching level of center of eye, second segment shorter, third shortest; ratio of length of segments 1:0.70:0.35. Pronotum of general body color, its shape as shown in figures 297, 298. Sides of anterior lobe subparallel, only slightly converging toward behind, forming conspicuous angle with sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes short, subtriangular, angular apically . Disc of anterior lobe irregularly granulose, tubercles very faint, difficult to perceive. Scutellum excavate on disc; scutellar process lanceolate, depressed dorsoventrally, sulcate longitudinally above. Hemelytra as shown in figures 289, 299, attaining level of center of seventh urotergite. Hemelytra black; membrane with five yellowish spots: one at base of each vein, one at apex of clavus, and one, the largest, adjacent to apex of corium. Corium over half as long as hemelytron, attaining level of apex of third visible connexival segment, and almost attaining level of apex of inner cell of membrane, the latter not widened subapically. Fore femora four times as long as wide, with two spinelike processes; mid and hind femora with only one, larger process. Abdomen with posterior fourth of each connexival segment yellowish or reddish dorsally and ventrally, light color continued ventrally onto lateral portions of urosternites. Spiracles very close to lateral margin of urostemites. MALE GENITALIA: As in generic description, very similar to those of B. peruvianus .
Belminus herreri@Belminus herreri, new species Figures 301,302 DIAGNOSIS: Belminus herreri differs from all other species of the genus by the light-colored areas of its thorax and the annulate legs DESCRIPTION. Length of male 8.5 mm, of female 9.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male and female 2.5 mm, of abdomen of male 3.8 mm, of female 4.0 mm General color black. The following areas yellow: collar including anterolateral processes; the 2+2 anterior discal tubercles of fore lobe of pronotum; submedian carinae of hind lobe of pronotum except their posterior portion; lateral and posterolateral margin of hind lobe of pronotum; apical half of scutellar process; a narrow band on corium adjacent to basal two-fifths of clavus; membrane narrowly along contact with corium; coxae and trochantera; narrow apical annulus of femora and a comparatively large submedian annulus on hind femora, incomplete on middle and missing on fore femora; posterior third of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally, extended onto adjacent areas of stemites and tergites; posterior border of pygophore, gonocoxites of eighth segment and median longitudinal stripe on eighth and ninth tergites of female. Head granulose, two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Clypeus truncate apically. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.5), the latter subcircular, with sides conspicuously convergent posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of lower but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.15. Ocelli small, about as large as individual granule of head integument. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle small, barely extending beyond base of first antenna} segment. Rostrum with basal segment falling slightly short of level of anterior border of eyes; ratio of rostral segments 1:0.90:0.45. Shape of pronotum as shown in figures 301, 302B. Sides of anterior lobe not strongly diverging behind, forming conspicuous angle with sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes of pronotum broadly angular. Disc of anterior lobe granulose and with 7 + 7 tubercles, the 2 + 2 anterior ones the most conspicuous, the remaining difficult to observe. Carinae of posterior lobe almost attaining posterior border of pronotum. Scutellar process subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally, rugose transversally on dorsum, not sulcate. Hemelytra attaining basal third of seventh tergite in male (hemelytra of female not examined). Corium over half as long as hemelytra, attaining level of center of third visible connexival segment, and falling considerably short of apex of inner cell of membrane. The only complete specimen examined with cells of membrane modified by presence of subapical spurious transversal vein in outer cell of membrane. Membrane smoky black, with veins enclosed by deeper black areas. Legs as in generic description and figures 301, 302E. Fore femora four times as long as wide. Femora with one or two spinelike projections, if two then of very different size. Spiracles very close to lateral margin of urosternites . Genitalia as in generic description.
Belminus peruvianus@Belminus peruvianus Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky Figures 61; 9A; lOF; 12F; 13C; 14C; 23F, G; 240, R; 29K; 303-305 Belminus peruvianus Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 91, figs. 1-37. Length of males 10.2-10.8 mm, of female 11.2 mm; maximum width of pronotum 2.8-2.9 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 4.1-4.7 mm, of female 4.8-5.0 mm General color black, in some cases faintly tinged with pink. Antennae, rostrum, and in some cases apices of femora and tarsi, light brown. Light yellowish spots at base of the three veins of membrane; a similar spot at apex of corium. Posterior border of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally with irregularly shaped yellowish red transversal spot occupying from one-third to one-fourth of surface of each connexival segment. Lateral areas of stemites with more or less extensive reddish areas connected to connexival spots. In some specimens, small reddish areas of variable extension before and behind eyes, on sides of hind lobe of head dorsally, on apices of anterolateral projection of pronotum, and on discal tubercles of fore lobe. Head strongly granulate, granules largest on dorsal surface. Head two and one-half times as long as wide (l:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Oypeus emarginate apically. Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4), the latter subrectangular, with sides almost straight, subparallel, only very slightly converging toward behind. Eyes in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal or ventral surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.5. Ocelli very small, obsolescent, not larger than average granule of head. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle large, attaining one-third of length of first antennal segment. Setae of second antennal segment as shown in figure 61, trichobothrial pattern as shown in figure 9A. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.85-2.1:1.55-1.65:1.65-1.85. Rostrum with first segment not extending beyond level of posterior third of anteocular region; ratio of rostral segments 1:1.0:0.45. Pronotum black, its shape as shown in figure 304. Sides of anterior lobe strongly diverging toward behind, not forming conspicuous anglewith sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes pointed. Disc of anterior lobe with 7 + 7 very conspicuous tubercles, the latter subconical in side view. Scutellar process black, subcylindrical, almost pointed posteriorly, rugose transversally on dorsum, not sulcate . Hemelytra and wings as in generic description and figures 304, 305C, F, not quite attaining center of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium half as long as hemelytron, its apex attaining level of extreme base of third visible abdominal tergite, and extending only slightly beyond level of middle of internal cell of membrane, the latter cell slightly widened subapically. Legs with fore femora three and one-half times as long as wide. Femora with one large and two or three smaller denticles or processes, the larger ones up to one-half as long as diameter of femur. Abdomen with spiracles close to external margin of sternites. Genitalia as in generic description and figure 23F, G.
Belminus rugulosus@Belminus rugulosus Stal Figures 306-308 Belminus rugulosus Stal, 1859, p. 102, pl. 6, fig.I. Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 94. Martinez and Carcavallo, 1976, p. 241, fig.I. Conorhinus diminutus Walker, 1873b, p. 19. Marlianus diminutus: Distant, 1902, p. 191. Female. Length 10.5-11.0 mm Maximum width of pronotum 2.5-2.8 mm, of abdomen 4.0-4.3 mm General color black. Scutellar proc ss, spots at base of membranal cells and at apex of corium, at base of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally and on adjacent area of urosternites, yellowish brown or orange. Third and fourth antennal segments, rostrum, apices of femora, and tarsi brown. Head granulose, granules of various sizes. Head slightly more than twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.90). Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (1:0.45-0.50), the latter faintly rounded laterally, with sides strongly converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head; ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.20-2.35. Ocelli small. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.9-2.0:l.4:l.4. Rostrum with first segment not quite attaining level of anterior border of eyes; ratio of antennal segments 1:0. 75-0.85:0.4-0.5. Pronotum black, most heavily granulose on fore lobe, with 7 + 7 distinct tubercles. Sides of anterior lobe subparallel, only slightly diverging toward behind, forming conspicuous angle with sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes large, distinctly pointed. Scutellum excavate on disc; scutellar process shallowly sulcate dorsally. Hemelytra almost attaining level of posterior border of tergite VII. Corium approximately half as long as hemelytron, its apex attaining level of center of third visible connexival segment, and approaching level of apex of inner membranal cell, the latter comparatively wide. Legs as in generic description and figures 306, 307. Femora with two or three spinelike processes. Venter with spiracles very close to lateral margin of stemites. Genitalia as in generic description.
Parabelminus Lent@Parabelminus Lent, 1943c, p. 497. Triatominae of 9-10 mm in length. Basic color black. Distinct, short adpressed setae on most body parts. Head from one and one-half to twice as long as wide, shallowly but distinctly excavate longitudinally on under surface for reception of rostrum. Genae compressed laterally, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus, and completely covering bucculae. Clypeus wide anteriorly, narrowed posteriorly. Postocular region subrectangular, with sides slightly coverging towards behind. Postocular furrow obsolescent. Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view surpassing level of ventral but not attaining level of dorsal surface of head. Ocelli very small, obsolescent, laterally oriented, situated at level of inner tangents of eyes. Antennae inserted on anterior third of anteocular region. First segment short, second and third segments subequal in size, fourth slightly longer. Second segment with three equidistant trichobothria. Rostrum attaining prosternum, distinctly flattened dorsoventrally; first and third segment shortest, second much longer. Pronotum with anterior lobe covered by setiferous granules forming distinct pattern; anterolateral angles short. Posterior lobe with humeri rounded; submedian carinae almost attaining hind border; surface of posterior lobe rugose-granulose. Scutellum subsemicircular, exposed portion subtrapezoidal; posterior process absent. Surface of scutellum heavily rugose. Hemelytra falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner cell of membrane remote from inner angle of cell, conspicuously curved, meeting claval suture at center of latter, enclosing wide subtriangular cell. R + M obsolescent, connected on its basal half by small branch to Sc; apical subdivision into R and M not discernible. Hind wing with hamus attaining base of wing; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs short, granulose. Femora stout, with l + 1 short, spinelike teeth on under surface subapically. Lower surface of femora smooth, somewhat concave, closely fitting tibia when legs closed. Tibiae short, widened, distinctly compressed laterally, conspicuously narrowed at base. Spongy fossulae present on all three pairs of legs, small, not longer than width of tibia apically. Tarsi short, about one fifth the length of tibia, two-segmented. Abdomen heavily rugose dorsally and ventrally; portion of basal tergite exposed between hemelytra. Central area of venter slightly convex only, but not abruptly flattened. Connexivum very wide dorsally, connexival segments as wide as one-fifth of width of abdomen; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments. Spiracles remote from connexival suture. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short, narrow, subrectangular apical process. Articulatory apparatus short, transverse, subrectangular; pedicel very short. Struts separated at base, their apical portion fused into narrow tonguelike structure. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. Genitalia of female truncate apically, terminal tergites vertical. Fifth instar nymph (not seen, characters deduced from those of fourth instar nymph). With the characters of the tribe; setae not scalelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; genae platelike, compressed laterally, their apex rounded in side view; femora with small but distinct denticles; tibiae with spongy fossulae on all pairs; tarsi very short, about twice as long as diameter of tibia apically. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; first rostral segment less than half as long as second; spongy fossulae on all pairs of legs; setae of urotergites in three irregular transverse rows.
Parabelminus carioca@Parabelminus carioca Lent Figures 98; 23E; 309-311 Parabelminus carioca Lent, 1943c, p. 509, figs. 3-10. Length of male 9.0-9.5 mm, of female 10 mm, maximum width of pronotum of male 2.5, of female 3.0 mm, of abdomen of male 4.0-4.5, of female 5.0 mm General color black, antennae brown; hemelytra with yellowish spots at base of membrane and adjacent to corium. Head almost twice as long as wide (1:0.5-0.6) and as long as or very slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.9-1.0); anteocular region distinctly longer than postocular (1:0.7). Hind lobe of head one and one-half times as wide as long (1:0.7). Synthlipsis equal to more than twice the width of eye (1:2.5-2.7). Trichobothrial pattern of second antennal segment as shown in figure 98. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3:2.4:3.0. Rostrum as in generic description and figure 311; ratio of rostral segments 1:2.8:0.9. Portuguese version, p. 499. Pronotum as shown in figures 309, 310, 311; median constriction not pronounced, sides of anterior and posterior lobes forming an almost straight line. Anterolateral angles of pronotum shortly pointed. Scutellum as shown in figures 309, 310, 311A. Hemelytra and hind wings as in generic description and figures 309, 310, 3110. General color of hemelytra black. Yellowish white areas in space enclosed by Cu and claval suture, on bases of inner and outer cells of membrane or of inner cell only, on membrane adjacent to base of inner cell, and in area adjacent to apex of corium. Apex of hemelytra slightly surpassing base of seventh abdominal tergite, falling considerably short of apex of abdomen in both sexes. Legs as in generic description and figures 309, 310, 311C. Femora each with one pair of distinct spinelike processes; fore femora widest on anterior third, slightly over three times as long as wide. Abdomen of general body color; posterolateral angles of connexival segments with small light reddish spots . GENITALIA: Of male and female as in generic description; genitalia of male as illustrated .
Parabelminus yurupucu@Parabelminus yurupucu, new species Figures 23H; 24E; 251; 312, 313 Parabelminus species, Miles, 1976, p. 51 DIAGNOSIS: Parabelminus yurupucu differs from P. carioca, the only other known species of the genus, by its more slender head, the larger eyes, the sides of the fore and hind lobe of the pronotum forming a conspicuous angle, and the rounded anterolateral projections of the pronotum DESCRIPTION. Length of male 8. 9 mm, of female 9.5-9.7 mm, width of pronotum of male 2.3 mm, of female 2.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 3.9 mm, of female 4.3-4.4 mm General color pattern much as in P. carioca . Head twice as long as wide (1:0.5), distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8-0. 9); anteocular region almost twice as long as postocular (1:0.60-0.65). Hind lobe of head one and one-half times as wide as long (1:0. 7 5). Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.65-1.85; viz., eye slightly over half as wide as synthlipsis. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1. 75-1.80:1.85-2.10:2.00. Rostrum as shown in figure 313B. Ratio of rostral segments l:2.40-2.80:0.80-0.85. Pronotum bell-shaped, median constriction pronounced, sides of anterior and posterior lobes meeting at conspicuous angle, viz., fore lobe with sides less diverging than in carioca. Anterolateral angles of pronotum bluntly rounded. Scutellum as in carioca. Hemelytra much as in carioca, yellowish spots slightly smaller. Fore femora about three and onehalf times as long as wide, with one pair of short denticles; mid and hind femora each with one pair of spinelike processes. Abdomen and genitalia as in carioca; genital region of female as shown in figure 3130.
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ Microtriatoma Prosen and Martinez, 1952, p. 6. Triatominae of 7-8 mm in length, strongly flattened. Various body regions with distinct adpressed short setae. Basic color black. Head from 1.2-1.7 times as long as wide, not distinctly sulcate on under surface. Genae compressed laterally, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus, and completely covering bucculae. Clypeus widest near apex, narrowed posteriorly. Postocular region from subrectangular, with sides very slightly converging toward behind to subsemicircular. Postocular furrow obsolescent. Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ocelli very small, laterally oriented, situated at level of inner tangents of eyes. Antennae inserted at center of anteocular portion of head. First segment short, second, third, and fourth segments longer, subequal in length. Second segment with three trichobothria, two close to base, one near middle of segment. Rostrum attaining prostemum, distinctly flattened; first segment attaining level of insertion of antennae. Pronotum with anterior lobe granulose, posterior lobe rugose-granulose; anterolateral angles short; discal and lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe with humeri widely rounded; submedian carinae almost attaining hind border. Scutellum subtriangular, heavily rugose-granulose. Posterior process lanceolate, slightly shorter than disc of scutellum. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner cell of membrane remote from inner angle of cell, conspicuously curved, meeting claval suture at center of latter, enclosing wide subtriangular cell. R + M obsolescent, connected at middle by a small branch to Sc; apical subdivision into R and M faintly perceptible. Hind wing hamus attaining base of wing; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs short, femora not as much thickened as in Parabelminus and without denticles. Tibiae short, compressed laterally, not conspicuously narrowed at base. Spongy fossulae present on all three pairs of legs, small, not longer than width of tibiae apically. Tarsi short, about one fifth of length of tibia, two-segmented. Abdomen heavily rugose dorsally and ventrally. Central portion of venter almost flat but not abruptly so. Connexivum very wide dorsally; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments. Spiracles remote from connexival suture. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short, narrow, apically blunt posterior process. Articulatory apparatus about as long as wide. Pedicel very short. Struts separated at base, their apical halves fused, forming a narrow tonguelike structure. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. Genitalia of female truncate posteriorly, eighth and ninth tergites vertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; most setae scalelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; genae platelike, laterally compressed, apex rounded in lateral view; femora without denticles; tibiae with spongy fossulae on all pairs; tarsi very short, about as long as diameter of tibiae apically.
Microtriatoma borbai@Microtriatoma borbai, new species Figures 314, 315 DIAGNOSIS: A species distinguished from trinidadensis, the only other species of the genus, mainly by the very short hind lobe of the head, the comparatively longer third rostral segment, and the uniformly dark membrane of the hemelytra DESCRIPTION. Length of male 7.0-8.0 mm, of female 7 .5 mm Color pattern as in trinidadensis, but general color in most specimens piceous although appearing black to the naked eye. Head stout in lateral view, and twice as long as high. In dorsal view, head about one and one-fourth times as long as wide (1:0.8) and invariably shorter than pronotum (l:l.l-1.2). Anteocular region varying from slightly longer than, to as long as, postocular region (1:0.9-1.0). Postocular region subsemicircular, very short, ratio length to width 1:1.7-2.0. Genae, eyes and ocelli as in trinidadensis. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.5. Ratio of antennal segments l:l.5-1.9:1.3-1.4:l.5-l.9. Rostrum as shown in figure 315A; ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8-2.0:1.0. 1Spanish version of key, p. 499, Portuguese version, p. 477. Pronotum as in trinidadensis; anterolateral angles pointed in most specimens . Hemelytra and hind wings as in trinidadensis, but membrane of hemelytra concolorous dark . Apex of hemelytra of male approaching posterior border of tergite VII, of female shorter, closer to basal than to posterior border of tergite VII. Male genitalia with fused portion of struts narrow, parallel-sided for most of its length . Legs as in trinidadensis. DISTRIBUTION: Brazil (Parana).
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@Microtriatoma trinidadensis (Lent) Figures 9C, D; 230; 316-318 Bolbodera trinidadensis Lent, 195la, p. 153, figs. 1-3. Microtriatoma trinidadensis: Prosen and Martinez, 1952, p. 8. Carcavallo, Barreto, Martinez and Tonn, 1976, p. 236, figs. 4-7. Microtriatoma mansosotoi Prosen and Martinez, 1952, p. 8, figs. 1-3. Wygodzinsky, 1960, p. 317, figs. 35-44. D Alessandro, Barreto and Duarte, 1971, p. 162. Carcavallo, Barreto, Martinez and Tonn, 1976, p. 232, figs. 1-3. Length of male 7.5-8.0 mm, of female 7.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 2.0 mm, of female 2.3 mm, of abdomen of male 3.3, of female 3.5 mm General color piceous to black. Head of general body color, with adpressed setae. Head slender in lateral view, more than twice as long as high (l:0.38-0.46). In dorsal view, head about one and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.6-0.7), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.0-1.2). Anteocular region varying from slightly longer to slightly shorter than postcoular (l:0.8-1.1). Postocular region of head varying from subrectangular to subsemicircular, invariably wider than long, ratio length to width 1:1.3-1.6. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.2. Trichobothrial pattern of second antennal segment as shown in figure 9C, D. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.3-2.1:1.3-2.1:1.7-2.3. Rostrum as in generic description and figure 3188, I, N, P, X; ratio of segments 1:1.5-1.7:0.7-0.8. Neck of general body color. Pronotum of general body color, its shape as shown in figures 316, 317, 318A; sides of anterior and posterior lobes almost continuous, not forming conspicuous angle. Anterolateral angles of pronotum from blunt to distinctly pointed. Scutellum with disc depressed at center. Legs as in generic description and figures 316, 317, of general body color, with coxae and trochantera yellowish. Fore femur widest at anterior third, almost four times as long as wide. Hemelytra and hind wings as in general description and figures 316, 317. Corium distinctly pilose; general color of hemelytra dark, membrane speckled with whitish. Larger whitish areas on apical half of clavus, except extreme apex and conspicuous spot at level of apex of scutellar process, on corium on space enclosed by Cu and claval suture, on adjacent areas of membrane, and on narrow band of membrane adjacent to apical portion of corium. Apex of hemelytra approaching posterior border of tergite VII in both sexes. Abdomen of general body color. Connexivum dorsally and ventrally with narrow transversal yellowish bands before each intersegmental suture, widest near outer margin of connexival segments. Spiracles yellowish. Genitalia of female as in generic description, of male as in figures 230, 318S-V.
ALBERPROSENIINI MARTINEZ AND CARCAVALLO@ALBERPROSENIINI MARTINEZ AND CARCAVALLO Alberproseniini Martinez and Carcavallo, 1977, p 112. Very small Triatominae of approximately 5 mm length, their body somewhat compressed dorsoventrally. Body integument minutely granulose and rugose; body and appendages only with short setae. Head extraordinarily short and wide, with anteocular portion shorter than length of eyes, in dorsal view. Antenniferous tubercles adjacent to anterior border of eyes, short, without apicolateral projections. Anteocular portion of head with bucculae. Genae inconspicuous, not projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Ocelli large, inserted on well-developed ocelliferous elevations on disc of postocular portion of head. Second article of antennae with trichobothria arranged in one row. Legs short, femora thickened. Abdomen broadly oval. Urosternites covering part of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. Genitalia of male not examined in detail. MALE GENITALIA: of a specialized structure. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface delicately chagrine, somewhat rugose; genae short, not surpassing level of apex of clypeus; eyes situated laterally on posterior third of head; antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral processes; stridulatory sulcus present; fore and mid femora incrassate, denticulate, without trichobothria; fore tarsi shorter than half the length of tibia; abdomen membranous, without tubercles or granules.
Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo@Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo, 1977, p. 113. Triatominae of approximately 5 mm in length. Overall body color black, with simple yellow pattern elements. Body surface delicately granulose and rugose. Head very short, approximately as long as wide across eyes. Genae inconspicuous. Clypeus widest before middle, its apex slightly convex. Postocular region with sides rounded, convergent behind. Postocular furrow faintly perceptible, straight across at level of posterior border of eyes. Dorsal surface of head between eyes with median longitudinal, apically bifurcate crest. Eyes large, occupying considerable portion of lateral surf ace of head. Antenniferous tubercles inserted close to anterior margin of eyes. Antennae short, with second and fourth articles the longest, third slightly shorter. Second segment with several trichobothria in one row, the two basal ones closely approximated, the apical one longer than the remaining. Pronotum with fore lobe divided by deep longitudinal median sulcus into two strongly convex portions, without tubercles. Constriction between anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum well marked. Posterior lobe rugose, with humeral angles narrow, somewhat flaring; submedian carinae well developed, almost attaining posterior margin. Scutellum triangular, disc deeply excavated. Posterior process of scutellum slightly longer than body of scutellum, stout, horizontal, subcylindrical, rounded apically. Stridulatory sulcus of prosternum well developed. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Cu inserted at base of inner membranal cell remote from claval suture, curved, closely approaching claval suture halfway to base of hemelytron. R+ M distinct at base, forming short ridge, connected by short branch to Sc; obsolescent on distal two-thirds, apical division into R and M difficult to observe. Entire corium heavily rugose. Inner cell of membrane much narrower and shorter than outer cell. Legs short. Under surface of femora with several subequal denticles. Tibiae slender, straight; fore tibiae strongly compressed laterally. Spongy fossulae on first pair of legs in male (female unknown). Tarsi long and slender, three-segmented. Abdomen convex below. Connexivum wide dorsally; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates, the latter without ridges. Urosternites irregularly wrinkled, minutely carinulate along base of each urosternite. Spiracles distant from lateral margin of urosternites by several times their own diameter. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short triangular platelike process apically. Articulatory apparatus long and slender, not examined in detail. Basal plate struts very short, apparently fused into an upper platelike apically emarginated structure, and 1 + 1 lower subcircular structures. Dorsal sclerotization of phallus large but faint; vesica and lateral endosoma processes not observed. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; setae short but not scalelike; second rostral article longer than first, third the shortest; bucculae at base of rostrum distinct; femora denticulate; tibiae without spongy fossulae; tarsi elongate, several times as long as diameter of tibia apically.
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@Alberprosenia goyovargasi Martinez and Carcavallo Figures 29P; 319, 320 , p. 114, fig.l. Male (female unknown). Length 5.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum I. 6 mm, of abdomen 1.0 mm Overall color from dark reddish brown to black, with light brown and yellow pattern elements. Head piceous, sides of postocular region light brown; surface granulose, especially on ocelliferous tubercles and on apically bifurcate dorsal longitudinal ridge along center. Head as long as wide across eyes. Anteocular region four times as Jong as postocular, the latter subsemicircular, four times as wide as long, entirely occupied on dorsum by large ocelliferous tubercles separated by a longitudinal furrow. Eyes in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under and cl sely approaching level of upper surface of head. Jugae and genae inconspicuous in lateral view, genae not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus in dorsal flew. Antenniferous tubercles very short, adjoining anterior margin of eyes. Antennae with first segment slightly less than twice as long as wide, second with five trichobothria as shown in figure 320C. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.2:3.3:4.2. Rostrum as in generic description and figure 3208; second and third segments slightly flattened. Ratio of rostral segments I: 1.33:0.47. Pronotum piceous, gradually lighter toward behind; humeri and anterolateral angles yellowish white. Structure of pronotum as in generic description and figures 319A, 3208. Sides of anterior and posterior lobes forming distinct angle. Anterior lobe of pronotum strongly elevated. Humeral angles flaring. Anterolateral processes small, broadly subconical. Scutellum irregularly and coarsely wrinkled; median depression not delimitated by distinct carinae. Meso and metapleura and stema coarsely and irregularly rugose. Hemelytra as in generic descriptions and figures 319A, 320F. Corium and basal third of clavus piceous; corium reddish at base, conspicuously yellowish white apically. Membrane brown, fumose, with large yellowish white subcircular spot occupying basal half of inner membranal cell and adjacent areas. Legs as in generic description and figure 320 D, I, M, stout, fore femora 3.5 times as long as wide. Denticles of femora arranged in two short series. Spongy fossula small. Legs piceous, with coxae, trochantera, base of femora widely and their apex narrowly, yellowish white; tarsi light brown. Abdomen of general body color. Connexival segments dorsally with posterior two-fifths yellowish white. Ventrally, connexival segments and adjacent portions of urosternites with posterior fourth yellowish white. Venter convex. Spiracles remote from lateral margin of urostemites . Integument of venter delicately wrinkled, irregularly so on disc of urostemites, minutely canaliculate longitudinally along posterior margin of sclerites . MALE GENITALIA: As in generic description and figures 320G, J, K, L, N.
TRIATOMINI JEANNEL@TRIATOMINI JEANNEL Triatomini Jeannel, 1919, p. 176; Usinger, 1944, p. 36. Triatominae Pinto, 1926c, p. 485. Small- to large-sized Triatominae (9.5-42.0 mm long). Body integument from smooth to rugose, with or without small setiferous granules. Body from glabrous to heavily hirsute. Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection. Antenna inserted from very close to anterior margin of eye to center of anterior half of anteocular region of head. Genae from falling short of to slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, the latter widened at base, narrow apically. Ocelli situated posterolaterally behind eyes, in most cases on conspicuous elevations, behind interocular sulcus, the latter not fully developed. Head without setiferous callosities behind eyes. Second antennal segment with 4-10 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of segment. Remaining setae of second antennal segment not of uniform size. Corium with veins distinct. Abdomen in most cases with well-developed dorsal and ventral connexival segments, the latter not covered by urosternites; in some cases, dorsal connexival segments fused with urotergites, with ventral connexival segments either well developed or obsolescent, in latter case dorsal and ventral surface of abdomen laterally separated by wide membranous area. Genitalia of male. Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge. Basal plate struts narrow, rodlike, elongate, separate, extending almost along entire length of phallosoma, fused apically or not. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma large, subsemi-elliptical. Vesica heavily sclerotized in many cases. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface delicately or strongly granulose or rugose, glabrous or with short setae, if setae long, then spinulose; head not or very rarely strongly convex dorsally; genae not or only slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus; eyes situated laterally at or behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles without prominent apicolateral process; fourth antennal segment not or only slightly longer than any of the preceding; fourth or third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present in most genera (except Linshcosteus, genus with abbreviated rostrum); fore and mid femora slender or incrassate, with or without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without or with series of large tubercles dorsally along midline. First instar nymph: Head, thorax and legs uniformly dark or with light-colored annuli, never mottled; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present, rarely absent; mesonotum longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates large, distance between plates varied; femora without trichobothria; hind tarsi apically with or without numerous long, delicate sensory hairs; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows, very rarely three irregular rows. Eggs laid singly.
Triatoma Laporte@Triatoma Laporte Triatoma Laporte, 1832, p. 11; 1833, p. 77. Kirkaldy, 1900, p. 241. Van Duzee, 1917, p. 247. Neiva, 1911a, p. 421; 1914a, p. 18. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 860. Pinto, 1931, p. 57. Usinger, 1939, p. 34. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 70. Usinger, 1944, p. 28. Triatoma (Triatoma): Lima, 1940, p. 188. Conorhinus Laporte, 1833, p. 77. Amyot and Serville, 1843, p. 383. Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p. 69. StAI, 1859, p. 100; 1865, p. 120; 1868, p. 123; 1872, p. 108. Walker, 1873a, p. 81; 1873b, p. 12, StAI, 1874, p. 64. Meccus Stfil, 1859, p. 102; 1868, p. 123; 1872, p. 108. Walker, 1873a, p. 81; 1873b, p. 12. Champion, 1899, p. 206. Van Duzee, 1916, p. 29. Readio, 1927, p. 112. Eutriatoma Pinto, 1926c, p. 485; 1831, p. 86. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 858. Usinger, 1939, p. 34. Triatoma (Eutriatoma): Lima, 1940, p. 188. Neotriatoma Pinto, 1931, p. 120 (new synonymy). Triatoma (Neotriatoma): Lima, 1940, p. 198. Triatomaptera Neiva and Lent, 1940a, p. 265. Mepraia Mazza, Gajardo and Jorg, 1940, p. 3. Nesotriatoma Usinger, 1944, p. 38 (new synonymy). Triatomini. Small- to large-sized (9.5-39.5 mm). Body not conspicuously flattened. Color varied; head and thorax with or without setiferous granules, and with setae from very short and sparse to long. Head subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at or behind middle of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum; first rostral segment invariably much shorter than second; third without rostral organ. Anterior lobe of pronotum with or without discal and lateral tubercles. Humeral angles rounded or angular but not spined. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar process from subconical to subcylindrical. Legs with femora armed or unarmed; spongy fossulae of tibiae present or absent. Abdomen from narrow to wide, with lateral portions of urotergites exposed or completely covered by hemelytra. Dorsal and ventral connexival segments normally developed (except in Tspinolai, with dorsal connexival segments fused to urotergites and, in female, large membranous area separating ventral connexival plates from urosternites). Venter of abdomen rounded or flattened longitudinally along middle. Posterior process of pygophore pointed. Fifth instar nymph: As described for tribe; antenniferous tubercles situated at or behind middle of anteocular portion of head; fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first segment much shorter than second, third without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; abdomen dorsally with or without series of median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum stout or slender, if slender, then first segment less than half as long as second; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with or without long delicate sensory hairs.
Triatoma amicitiae@Triatoma amicitiae Lent Figures 34-36 Triatoma amicitiae Lent, 195ld, p. 427, figs. 1-3; Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Female (male not known). Length 15 mm; width of pronotum 4 mm, of abdomen 7 mm Overall color uniformly orange-brown, with only extreme apex of corium and entire membrane, dark. Integument granulose on head and thorax. Setae very short and sparse. Head strongly convex dorsally between eyes, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.45); postocular with sides slightly rounded, somewhat converging posteriorly. Clypeus widened on posterior half, elevated in lateral view. Genae slightly tapering distally, their apex rounded, extending to level of apex of clypeus. Eyes unusually small, in lateral view not quite attaining level of lower surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:4.2. Ocelli small. Antenniferous tubercles situated behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first with apex falling short of level of apex of clypeus, second segment only with very short setae. Second segment four times as long as first. Rostrum with short setae on all segments, slightly longer on apex of second and on third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second falling slightly short of level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.4:0.5. Anterior lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose-granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before hind margin of pronotum; humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles with short, triangular, anterolaterally directed projections. Scutellum with central depression limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum, stout, subconical, its apex slightly upward turned. Hemelytra attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish, lighter colored than rest of body, only its apex darkened. Membrane dark. Legs stout, with fore femur about four times as long as wide, and without denticles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae (probably present in male). Venter slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, its microsculpture consisting of meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Dorsal connexival segments with conspicuous rugosities along outer margin. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum unicolorous, not spotted.
Triatoma arthurneivai@Triatoma arthurneivai Lent and Martins Figures 37, 38 Triatoma arthurneivai Lent and Martins, 1940, p. 881, fig.1, pis. 26. Correa, Alves and Noda, 1965, p. 217, figs. 1-15. Length of male 22 mm, of female 19.5-21.0 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 7.5 mm, of female 8.0 mm Overall color black, in some specimens with delicate blue pruinescence; orange-red markings on connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head black, delicately granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0.6), and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region two and one-half to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3-0.4), postocular with sides rounded, almost angulate. Oypeus long and narrow, only very feebly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae rounded or wide-angled apically. Eyes in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.0-1.3. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment compressed, beset with numerous adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.0-6.0:3.0-3.2:2.0-2.3. Rostrum reddish brown, lighter than head capsule. Second and third rostral segments somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, very slender in side view. Rostrum appearing glabrous, only third segment with numerous distinctly perceptible but very short hairs. First segment not attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second reaching to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8-1.9:0.9-1.0. Neck dark, with a pair of very small yellow spots laterally. Pronotum entirely black, only very rarely humeral area tinged with orange. Anterior lobe not granulose, with obsolescent or without dorsal and invariably without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third or almost to hind border of sclerite. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections prominent, conical, not flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum with distinct median depression. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, with apex slightly upturned, rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Distal portion of process light colored in some specimens. Hemelytra extending to apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium black; clavus black on basal third or fourth, light grayish brown on remainder, this color extending to adjoining portion of corium. Membrane fumose, light brown, lighter than corium, veins distinctly darker than cells. Legs uniformly black, very slender. Fore femora 7-8 times as long as wide; femora of fore and mid pairs of legs with a pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, delicately striate transversally, sparsely beset with short yellowish hairs. Spiracles very close to or adjoining connexival sutures. Urosternites dark brown or black, spiracles surrounded each by small yellow area. Connexivum with orange-red subsemicircular spots in central portion of each segment and adjacent to outer margin, and black marks in shape of wide transverse bands on intersegmental sutures widened toward inner connexival suture; lightcolored areas longer than dark ones, at least along outer margin. Male genitalia with endosomal processes much over half as long as phallosoma , heavily sclerotized, their apices with close to 100 denticles .
Triatoma barberi@Triatoma barberi Usinger Figures 24N, 39, 40 Triatoma sp., Mazzotti, 1939b, p. 74, fig.2. Triatoma barberi Usinger, 1939, p. 44; 1944, p. 72, pl. 12, fig.C. Ryckman, 1962, pl. 9, fig.P. Length of males 16-18, of females 18.5-20.0 mm; width of pronotum of males 3.5-4.0 mm, of females 4.0-4.5 mm; of abdomen of males 5.5-6.5, of females 6.5-7.0 mm Color from piceous to black, with reddish markings on connexivum. Setae short and sparse. Head , granulose and slightly rugose, distinctly convex above, twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region slightly over twice as long as postocular (1:0.45), postocular with sides rounded, verrucose. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, strongly widened on posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate transverse impression at base of clypeus. Genae narrowly tapered apically, almost attaining apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head in side view with distinct depression at level of base of clypeus; ventrally not salient behind eyes. Eyes in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal but very close to level of under surface of head. Eyes small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.2-3.0. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, attaining only two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with short, adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.6-3.0:1.7-2:1.6-1.8. Rostrum with relatively short hairs, somewhat longer toward apex of second and uniformly Jong on third segment. First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments l:1.2-1.4:0.5-0.6. Pronotum entirely dark, trapezoidal, with sides delicately carinate, only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe slightly elevated, distinctly granulose on ridges, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose, submedian carinae falling short of hind margin. Humeri rounded, not elevated. Anterolateral angles salient but short, rounded apically. Scutellum rugose; central portion distinctly impressed, limited laterally by sharp carinae. Apical process of scutellum very short, onehalf as long as main body of scutellum, conical, apex deflected. Hemelytra falling short of apex of abdomen by 0.5-1.0 mm, in either sex; uniformly dark colored. Legs uniformly dark, short and stout; fore femora 4.5 times as long as wide, minutely granulose. Fore and median femora with two pairs of subapical denticles. Males with minute spongy fossulae on tibiae of first and second pairs of leg. Females with spongy fossulae on first pair only. Venter slightly but distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, but flattened portion not distinctly separated from convex one. Urosternites minutely striate transversally; hairs inconspicuous. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum from dark red to orange-red, segments with black markings of varied extension, from occupying entire anterior four-fifths of segment to somewhat reduced with two pointed posterior projections, the outer one shorter than the inner one , and to broken up into two dark spots, the outer one small, situated at anteroextemal angle of segment, the inner one large, elongate, adjacent to inner border of connexival segment Dark markings in no case forming continuous longitudinal band.
Triatoma bouvieri@Triatoma bouvieri Larrousse Figures 41, 42 Triatoma bouvieri Larrousse, 1924a, p. 67, fig.3. Lent, 1953b, p. 316. Panstrongylus bouvieri: Pinto, 1931, p. 106. Length of male 17.0-18.0 mm, of female 19.5-20.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.5 mm, of female 4.8 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.0-7.8 mm, of female 8.0 mm Overall color from yellowish to reddish brown, with dark brown or black markings on head, pronotum, corium, and connexivum . Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Setae very short and sparse. Head granulose and irregularly rugose above; its color dark reddish brown with 1 + I longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally. Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.65) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region twice or slightly more than twice as long as postocular (1:0.4-0.5); postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, rather abruptly widened on posterior half, conspicuously convex in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under surface but remote from upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.9-2.4. Distance from ocelli to hind border of eyes subequal to length of diameter of ocelli. First and second antennal segments dark brown to black; first segment very short, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae, shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.1-3.5:2.4-2.6:2.3-2.5. Rostrum with short, inconspicuous setae except on apex of second and on third segment, but not numerous and not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-0.5. Neck uniformly yellowish or reddish. Pronotum light reddish brown; darkbrown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four longitudinal dark stripes on posterior lobe, I+ l in area between submedian carinae and lateral margin of pronotum, and I+ l in space between carinae, adjacent to same. Outer stripes abbreviated in some specimens. Fore lobe granulose on elevated areas, with faint discal and without lateral tubercles. Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles shortly conical, rounded or tapered apically. Scutellum with variable color pattern, its basal portion dark brown or black, central depression and posterior process in most cases reddish. Sublateral carinae limiting central depression distinct. Posterior process of scutellum relatively short, only twice as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, sharply tapering from wide base to narrow apex. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen in males and in some females; in other females not extending beyond mjddle of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish brown, with irregular central spot of varied size, extending to costal margin of hemelytron or separated from margin by more or less wide light colored stripe connecting subbasal and subapical light spots, or the latter separated by extended central dark spot. Base and apex of corium dark. Legs reddish brown, stout; fore femur 4.0-4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with 3-4 denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen rounded below but faintly flattened longitudinally along middle, more perceptibly so in female. Surface microstructure of venter in shape of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles ; transverse striations not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or remote from same by distance not larger than their own diameter. Abdomen dark reddish brown. Connexivum light reddish brown. Connexival segments at center with dark brown or black roundish or square spot, larger dorsally than ventrally, in some specimens attaining lateral margin of segment, in others not extending to lateral margin. Membrane as dark as dark portions of corium.
Triatoma brasiliensis@Triatoma brasiliensis Neiva Figures 43-45 Triatoma brasiliensis Neiva, 1911d, p. 461; 1914, p 33. Pinto, 1925a, p. 53, figs. 11, 34-36. Lucena, 1958, p. 311; 1970, p. 81Conorhinus brasi\iensis: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Triatoma brasiliensis melanica Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 72. Triatoma brasiliensis macromelasoma Galviio, 1956, p. 456, fig.I. Length of male 22-25 mm, of female 23.0-25.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 4-5 mm, of female 4.5-5.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6-9 mm, of female 7.5-10.0 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, in some cases lighter brown dorsally; brownish yellow markings on neck, pronotum, legs, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument with sparse, short, yellowish or black setae. Head dark brown or black, in some cases tinged with light brown dorsally; rugose dorsally and laterally, slightly granulose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.50-0.55) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.95). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides slightly rounded. Clypeus distinctly but not abruptly widened behind middle. Genae tapering distally but their apex narrowly rounded, not pointed, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae widely rounded apically. Eyes in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.25. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at or slightly before middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment subcylindrical, beset with declivous setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.6-4.2:2.4-2.7:1.9-2.2. Rostrum thick, as dark as head capsule, with mediumsized hairs on first and on underside of second segment, and with long and very numerous hairs on upper surface of second and on entire third segment; hairs especially dense dorsally at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment extending to level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second to level of apex of middle of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-1.9:0.9-1.05. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum very sparsely granulose, from dark brown to black, in some cases entirely dark, more frequently with some or all of the following yellow: collar, anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of fore lobe, submedian carinae along their entire length, a pair of large, elongate, subrectangular markings on hind lobe laterad of carinae, and narrower markings parallel to lateral margins. Anterior lobe with very low discal tubercles, difficult to perceive when concolorous with overall surface of fore lobe; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly angular. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process with yellow point in light-colored specimens. Scutellum coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression. Posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, but slightly compressed laterally, apex slightly elevated, rounded. Hemelytra extending to variable levels from base to apex of seventh urotergite. Corium light yellow, with dark areas of variable extension, mainly in lateral area limited by Sc, R + M and free portion of R, and on central area adjoining bases of membranal cells; areas mentioned joined in some specimens. Clavus entirely dark. Membrane fumose, from light yellow to light yellowish brown, as light as or slightly darker than light-colored areas of corium. Veins of membrane black; lumen of cells either uniformly light or, in most specimens, with more or less extensive, irregularly shaped sooty spot extending over central portion of cells. Legs dark, with light markings on trochantera, on middle and rarely also at base of femora, as well as apically on tibiae. Extension of light areas variable, from extensive to very reduced and completely absent in melanic forms. Legs slender, fore femora from six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora salient below subapically or with one or two weak denticles. Male with spongy fossulae on tibiae of fore and mid legs; absent in females. Abdomen slightly flattened below in both sexes, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Abdomen of female very wide, lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Venter dark brown or black, in some specimens suffused with light brown; spiracles enclosed in minute yellow area. Connexival segments on disc with yellow rectangular or subtriangular yellow spot; wide black spot enclosing intersegmental sutures; yellow and black spots of about identical size, occupying entire width of segments.
Triatoma breyeri@Triatoma breyeri Del Ponte Figures 46-48 Triatoma breyeri Del Ponte, 1929, p. 3, fig.4; 1930, p. 863, pl. 41. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951,p. 118, figs. 232-239. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 63, pl. 2, fig.2. Mariluis, 1974, p. 7, figs. 16-19. Triatoma breyeri dallasi Del Ponte, 1930, p. 863. Length of male 18.0-18.5 mm, of female 20-22 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0 mm, of female 4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5 mm; of female 6.0-7.0 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with connexivum partly or entirely pale yellow. Pilosity of body inconspicuous. Head dark, transversally rugose dorsally, weakly granulose. Head approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.50- 0.55), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.90). Anteocular region two and onehalf to three times as Jong as postocular (l:0.35-0.40); postocular with sides feebly rounded. Clypeus narrow, distinctly but not abruptly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, blunt apically. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis e 1:1.45-1.75. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind center of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with numerous semierect ciliate hairs twice as long as diameter of segment, and less numerous regularly spaced elongate bristles from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment ; similar hairs and bristles on third and fourth segments. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.2-3.5:3.2-3.5:1.8-2.0. Rostrum light brown, not so dark as head. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending beyond level of hind border of head. Rostral segments slender, the second compressed dorsoventrally. First and second segments with hairs approximately as long as diameter of segments, but longer than diameter of segment on third; hairs not dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5-1.8:0.5-0.6. Neck dark, with I+ I distinct yellowish spots laterally. Pronotum uniformly dark. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not perceptibly granulose, with 1 + 1 small but distinct discal and 1 + I small lateral tubercles, the latter in some specimens obsolete. Posterior lobe wrinkled-rugose. Submedian carinae low, not extending beyond middle of hind lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded, subangular. Scutellum heavily rugose, central depression ill defined, from linear to imperceptible. Posterior process of scutellum horizontal, about as long as main body of scutellum, slender, narrowly tapering or pointed apically . Mesostemum limited posteriorly by prominent transverse straight ridge . Metastemum carinate longitudinally along middle . Hemelytra -closely approaching or attaining apex of abdomen; corium uniformly black; membrane fumose, greyish brown. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femora about six times as long as wide. Femora inermous, with short adpressed setae and ventrally with long bristles, most numerous on fore legs. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, carinate longitudinally along middle in male, almost imperceptibly flattened in female. Venter minutely striate transversally, more coarsely so on seventh urostemite of female. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum pale yellow, entirely so ventrally, but dorsally with disc of each connexival segment spotted with dark, in most specimens spot restricted to area adjacent to connexival suture, in others extending to a larger or smaller degree to outer area of connexivum.
Triatoma carrioni@Triatoma carrioni Larrousse Figures 49, 50 Triatoma carrioni Larrousse, 1926, p. 136, figs. 1, 3, 4. Campos, 1928, p. 61. Le6n, 1953, p. 2, fig.C. Herrer, 1955, p. 70, fig.2. Eutriatoma carrioni: Pinto, 1931, p. 87. Length of male 19.5-21.0 mm, of female 20.0-22.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 4.5-5.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.0-7.5 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with orange-red or yellowish markings on thorax, hemelytra and connexivum. Setae slender, very short, golden colored, inconspicuous. Head black, dorsally along middle with elevated longitudinal granulose ridge. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.4-0.5) and distinctly longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded, converging towards behind. Clypeus narrow, elongate, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, in some cases pointed, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. In side view, eyes reaching level of lower but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.8-0.9 in male, 1:1.0-1.6 in female, viz., eyes wider than synthlipsis in male but as wide as, or narrower than, synthlipsis in female . Antenniferous tubercles inserted distinctly behind middle of anteocular area. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first very short, not extending beyond basal two-thirds of genae. Second antennal segment with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.3:2.8-3.2:2.3-2.8. Rostrum dark brown or black, with short inconspicuous setae. First rostral segment only reaching to level of center of genae; second segment very long and slender, attaining level of ocelli, viz., not reaching to level of posterior border of head. Third rostral segment longer than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.0-3.5:1.2-1.3. Pronotum dark brown or black. Anterior lobe margined laterally with red, with discal and 1 + 1 posterosublateral tubercles; lateral tubercles absent but lateral borders of anterior lobe angularly salient behind. Posterior lobe black, with lateral margin bordered with orange-red; additionally, one central and 1 + 1 subl ateral longitudinal markings ex - tending from transversal sulcus to pronotum, markings medially constricted or even interrupted. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, wrinkled, not granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles and in some cases also center of collar, red. Anterolateral projections subconical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrall y. Scutellum black, heavily rugose, its posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, black at base, red distally, its apex spoon-shaped . Pleura uniformly dark brown or black. Hemelytra reaching apex of abdomen, black. Corium with one subbasal and one subapical very irregularly shaped transverse yellowish marking; apex of corium also yellowish. Some portions of veins forming membranal cells light colored and bordered with light, extension of light areas variable. Inner membranal cell with light-colored spot subbasally. Legs black, stout; fore femur 5.5-6.0 times as long as wide. Femora of first and second pairs of legs with three, hind femora with two, unusually large denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen minutely striate transversally below. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Pilosity of venter inconspicuous, adpressed. Venter of male convex, with faint trace of median longitudinal keel. Venter of female faintly but perceptibly flattened longitudinally along middle from second to sixth urosternite; seventh urosternite keeled longitudinally along middle. Venter dark brown or black. Connexivum black, with narrow transversal reddish spots straddling intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma cavernicola@Triatoma cavernicola Else and Cheong Figures 51, 52 Triatoma cavernicola Else and Cheong in Else, Cheong, Mahadevan and Zarate, 1977, p. 367, 2 figs. Length of males 18.5-20.5 mm, of females 20.5-21.0 mm; width of pronotum of males 6.5-7.5 mm, of females 4.5 mm; width of abdomen of males 6.5-7.5 mm, of females 7.0-7.5 mm General shape comparatively slender. Overall color pale stramineous, with dark brown or black markings mainly on head, pronotum, scutellum, apex of corium, connexivum, and on pleura. Body integument rugose. Setae very short and sparse. Head stramineous, with sides partly black, its surface slightly rugose and heavily granulose, approximately twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular (l:0.33); postocular region with sides rounded, heavily granulose. Clypeus widened at base, but not abruptly so. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed. Under surface of head with distinct protuberance behind eyes. In lateral view eyes attaining level of under surface of head and remote from level of upper surface. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head, without apicolateral projection. First antennal segment light colored, falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment entirely dark. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.5:3.1:2.5. Rostrum with sparse short hairs except those on third segment which are more numerous and as long as diameter of segment. First rostral segment attaining level of insertion of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5:0.5. Neck of general body color, with 1 + 1 dark lateral spots, being part of discontinuous lateral dark area extending from sides of head to first visible urostemite. Pronotum with anterior lobe slightly granulose, almost flat, without discal or lateral tu bercles; its color uniformly light. Posterior lobe delicately rugose and granulose, with submedian carinae delimitating a central and l + l lateral depressed areas, the latter on their anterior half with l + l elongate dark markings; l + l similar but shorter markings, not distinct in all specimens, close to inner border of carinae, at sides of central depression. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles of pronotum subtriangular, anterolaterally directed. Scutellum granulose and coarsely rugose transversally, dark laterally and light colored at center. Posterior process of scutellum subconical, shorter than main body of scutellum, horizontal , rounded apically; its color light yellow. Sterna and pleura , except acetabula, dark ; mesosternum lighter. Legs uniformly yellow, relatively slender; fore femur 6-7 times as long as wide, with one or two weakly developed or without denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Hemelytra attaining or slightly surpassing middle of seventh urotergite. Corium almost entirely pale yellow, with one elongate black spot subapically and, in some specimens, with a small and faint spot at center. Membrane light smoky brown. Venter flattened longitudinally along center, more pronouncedly so in female. Abdomen light colored ventrally, with external genitalia darkened somewhat irregularly in both sexes (artifact?). Integument of venter with extremely small irregular wrinkles, giving it an overall minutely crinkled aspect. Connexivum delicately creased longitudinally along outer margin. Color of connexivum pale yellow, disk of each segment with dark central spot adjacent to inner connexival suture but not attaining outer border; these spots very distinct dorsally from first to fifth visible segment, absent on last segment; corresponding spots of ventral surface of connexivum narrower.
Triatoma circummaculata@Triatoma circummaculata (Stal) Figures 53-55 Conorhinus circummaculatus Stal, 1859, p. 114. Triatoma circummaculata: Neiva, 1913, p. 196; 1914a, p. 35. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 868, pl. 44, fig.1. Triatoma (Neotriatoma) circummaculata: Lima, 1940, p. 198. Mazza, Talice and Jorg, 1942, p. 8, figs. 1-11, pl. 1. Neotriatoma circummaculata: Pinto, 1931, p. 121, figs. 32, 61. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1961, p. 128, figs. 241, 253. Di Primio, 1962, p. 16, fig.2. Length of male 15-16 mm, of female 15-17 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 3.0-3.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5-6 mm, of female 6 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with bright red markings on pronotum, corium, and connexivum; extension of markings variable . Pilosity very short, inconspicuous, insects appearing glabrous. Head of general body color, delicately rugose and granulose, with setae short and inapparent. Head from twice to slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.5), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7-0.8). Anteocular region about two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.35-0.4), postocular with sides distinctly convex, angularly projecting. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae large, rounded distally, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under surface but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.35-1.75. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, not projecting beyond middle of genae. Second antennal segment comparatively thick, beset with longitudinal rows of stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3- 4.0:3.0-4.2;2.0-2.7. Rostrum in most specimens light brown, contrasting with dark head. Setae of rostrum very short and sparse except scattered longer ones on apical portion of third segment. First segment very short, not attaining basal third of distance between apex of antenniferous tubercles and apex of head; second segment extending to level of anterior border of eyes or slightly beyond, third as long as second, reaching to or even beyond base of neck. First segment subcylindrical, second from subcylindrical to slightly flattened, third very strongly flattened dorsoventrally, very thin in lateral view, and in some specimens distinctly curved. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2:2. Neck dark brown, with a pair of lateral reddish spots. Pronotum with anterior lobe from dark brown to black, posterior lobe pigmented as anterior lobe, or from partially to entirely bright red . Fore lobe delicately granulose on ridges, and without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe feebly rugose. Submedian carinae penetrating only to anterior fourth or fifth of posterior lobe, obsolete beyond. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections laterally directed, very short, subconical, blunt apically. Scutellum of general dark color, rarely apex of posterior process lighter colored; central depression of scutellum distinctly delimited by carinae. Posterior process short, only half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, tapering to rounded and in some cases slightly upwardly bent point. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of urotergite VII. Corium dark brown or blackish, red at base and with smaller reddish spot subapically; these spots in some individuals more extended and occasionally confluent. Membrane brown, fumose, almost as dark as dark portions of corium. Legs uniformly dark, comparatively short; fore femur 5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter rounded below in both sexes, rarely very slighjly flattened in female. Integument of venter delicately striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously pilose. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Venter dark brown, connexivum bright red, with transverse black stripe straddling intersegmental suture ; transverse markings very narrow, only about one-fifth as long as red areas. Light color of connexivum invading urostemites, especially at spiracles.
Triatoma costalimai@Triatoma costalimai Verano and Galvao Figures 56-58 Triatoma costalimai Verano and Galviio, 1959, p. 199, 4 figs. Length of male 26 mm, of female 25.5-26.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.0-5.5 mm, of abdomen of male and female 7.5-8.0 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with reddish markings on neck, corium and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse. Head black, feebly rugose and granulose-punctate, approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.75). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides almost straight, distinctly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened behind middle. Genae pointed, projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.6-2.0. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.6-6.4:4.4:3.2. Rostrum as dark as head or somewhat lighter. First rostral segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of hind margin of eyes. Rostrum stout; first segment and most of under surface of second with short hairs; upper surface of second segment, especially toward apex, and entire third segment with numerous very dense setae longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.6-2.7:1. Neck dark, with pair of lateral reddish spots. Pronotum entirely dark brown or black. Fore lobe feebly sculptured and weakly granulose, with l + l barely perceptible discal tubercles; lateral tubercles absent. Hind lobe heavily rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to posterior margin of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded. Scutellum heavily rugose, with well-developed central depression. Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical or somewhat compressed laterally, its apex slightly elevated, narrowly rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Hemelytra attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium and clavus black, apex of corium bordered with reddish, and conspicuous orange-red marking subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell. Membrane dark gray, faintly tinged with reddish; veins of membrane black. Legs uniformly dark, slender. Fore femora eight times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in female. Venter convex in both sexes, highly polished, appearing glabrous, delicately striate transversally. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown; spiracles yellowish. Connexivum extensively dark brown; connexival segments each with orange-red marking of variable width extending along outer connexival border; dark portion of connexivum advancing towards external border along intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma deanei@Triatoma deanei Galvao, Souza and Lima Figures 59, 60Triatoma deanei Galviio, Souza and Lima, 1967, p401, ill. Galviio and Fuentes, 1971, p. 141, figs. l, 2, 4. Length of male (holotype) 25 mm, width of pronotum 6 mm, of abdomen 8.5 mm Overall color dark brown. Pilosity short and sparse. Head dark brown, delicately rugose and granulose, slightly less than twice as long as wide (1:0.55), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides almost straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, abruptly widened on posterior half. In lateral view eyes attaining level of under surface and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Antenniferous tubercles located at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. Rostrum reddish brown, relatively stout; first segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. First and under surface of second segment of rostrum with short hairs, upper surface of second and entire third segments with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment, very numerous on apex of second and entire third segments. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.25:1. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellowish spots. Pronotum black. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not granulose, with distinct although small discal and lateral tubercles, somewhat lighter colored than rest of surface of pronotum. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical. Scutellum uniformly dark, with well-developed median impression. Posterior process shortly subconical, wide at base, narrowly tapering apically, horizontal. Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus yellowish, dark along outer margin. Corium light yellowish brown with veins mostly dark, central portion of corium also darkened, dark area extending apicad and proximad along cell formed by Sc, R+M and R. Membrane light yellowish brown, with veins narrowly dark. Legs dark brown, trochantera and base of femora contrastingly yellow . Fore and mid femora with pair of very small subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid legs. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, with sparse short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Lateral portions of urotergites not exposed. Urosternites dark brown, except for minute yellow spots enclosing spiracles. Connexivum pale yellow, with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment, and darkened along connexival suture dorsally but not ventrally; some of the intersegmental sutures of connexivum slightly and narrowly darkened, markings similar to musical notes.
Triatoma delpontei@Triatoma delpontei Romafia and Abalos Figures 61, 62 Triatoma delpontei Romana and Abalos, 1947, p. 80, figs. 1-7, I pl. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 69, figs. 43, 47, 60, 102, 104-118. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 69, pl. I, fig.3. Length of male 24-26 mm, of female 25-27 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 6.5-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5-9.5 mm, of female 8.5-10.0 mm Robust, heavily sclerotized species . Overall color dark reddish brown or black, matte or slightly polished, with yellow markings on neck and connexivum, and with elytra also partly yellowish. Pilosity pale golden colored, adpressed, distinct but not as abundant as in T platensis, the most closely related species. Head dark reddish brown or black, pilose, sparsely granulose. Head comparatively stout in dorsal and lateral view, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular, the latter with sides rounded. Oypeus abruptly and almost circularly widened behind middle. Genae pointed, heavily sclerotized distally, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Apex of jugae angular , also heavily sclerotized. Head dorsally with distinct transverse impression at base of clypeus and of jugae. Eyes in lateral view attaining or falling slightly short of level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.2. Ocelli inserted on very conspicuous protuberances. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of apex of clypeus. Second and third antennal segments slightly compressed; second with adpressed setae, much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments I:3.3-3.5:2.0-2.3:1.5. Rostrum as dark as head. Setae of rostrum very short on first and most of under surface of second segment; distal portion of under surface and entire upper surface of second as well as entire third segment dorsally, ventrally and laterally with very dense setae much longer than diameter of segment, longest at base of third segment, progressively decreasing in length toward apex of rostrum. First segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not quite reaching level of apex of antenniferous tubercles. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2:1.0-1.1. Neck dark, with I+ I lateral yellow spots. Pronotum of general body color, from matte to slightly polished, covered with adpressed setae less numerous than in T platensis. Anterior lobe slightly granulose, with I+ I pointed vertical discal and 1 + I smaller, apically rounded lateral tubercles, as well as with I+ I obsolescent posterosublateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely and irregularly wrinkled, moderately setose. Submedian carinae evanescent just before hind border of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded; humeral area elevated. Anterolateral angles of pronotum small but distinct, conical, laterally directed. Scutellum heavily rugose; central depression with scattered setae, remainder more densely setose. Base of scutellum with submedian projections obsolescent. Posterior process of scutellum two-fifths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, subcylindrical on apical portion, rounded distally. Hemelytra attammg apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes. Clavus and corium distinctly although sparingly setose. Hemelytra lighter colored than body generally, yellowish, especially on corium, irregularly mottled with dark, dark pigment coalescing into large, irregularly delimited spot centered in apical half of inner membranal cell but extending to outer cell. Legs uniformly dark brown or blackish, stout, fore femur about five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of obsolescent subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in female. Setae of legs very numerous, visible to the unaided eye, many of those on tibiae longer than diameter of article . Venter convex, in female slightly flattened longitudinally along middle. Integument of venter coarsely although shallowly striate transversally; setae adpressed, numerous, but less so than in T platensis. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture, included in small, round yellow spot. Color of venter dark brown or blackish, with small medially constricted transverse yellow spot close but not adjacent to hind border of each segment.
Triatoma dimidiata@Triatoma dimidiata (Latreille) Figures 19A; 278; 63, 64 Reduvius dimidiatus Latreille in Humboldt and Bonpland, 1811, p. 223, pl. 15, fig.11. Conorhinus dimidiatus: StAl, 1859, p. llO, pl. 6, fig.2. Conorrhinus dimidiatus: Champion, 1899, p. 206, pl. 12, figs. 20, 21. Triatoma dimidiata: Neiva, 1914a, p. 36. Mazza, 1944, p. 62, pl. 1, fig.2. Usinger, 1944, p. 53, pl. 9, fig.D. Blanco Salgado, 1943, p. 38, figs. Conorhinus maculipennis Sti\\l, 1859, p. 111. Triatoma maculipennis: Pinto, 1931, p. 70, fig.12. Conorhinus dimidiatus var. maculipennis: Champion, 1899, p. 207, pl. 12, fig.21. Hoffmann, 1928, p. 12, figs. 1-6. Conorhinus dimidiata maculipennis: Neiva, 1914, p. 36. Usinger, 1944, p. 54, pl. 9, fig.F. Triatoma capitata Usinger, 1941, p. 52. Triatoma dimidiata capitata: Usinger, 1944, p. 54, pl. 9, fig.E. Length of male 24.5-32.0 mm, of female 24.5-35.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-7.0 mm, of female 6.5-9.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 9.0-12.0 mm, of female 9.5-13.0 mm Overall color from piceous to black, with connexivum and corium from pale yellow to orange yellow. Pilosity short, inconspicuous. Head rugose dorsally, from slightly less to slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.6) and about as long as pronotum (1:0.9-1.1). Anteocular region from 2.5 to 3.0 times as long as postocular (1:0.3-0.4), postocular with sides rounded, converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.0-2.0, varying considerably even among sympatric specimens. Ocelli large, as long as distance from their anterior border to posterior margin of eye. Antenniferous tubercles subcylindrical, comparatively elongate, situated slightly posterior of middle of anteocular region of head; first antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with many strong setae slightly longer than diameter of segment, as well as with numerous short, delicate erect hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.2-3.8:2.5:2.2. Rostrum slender; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3:0.7. Most setae of rostrum short, distinctly longer but not very numerous on apex of second and on third segment. Neck dark, with l + l lateral spots yellowish. Pronotum uniformly piceous or black. Anterior lobe with I+ l discal and I+ l smaller lateral tubercles, but not pointed and not elevated. Anterolateral angles anterolaterally directed, short, subconical, in some specimens yellowish apically. Scutellum shallowly rugose, central area not depressed; apical process about as long as body of scutellum, subcylindrical, slightly downwardly bent at apex. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen but leaving female genital segments exposed, and in some cases surpassing apex of abdomen in male. Basal portion of clavus black, apical half pale. Corium from pale to orange-yellow, its extreme apex black, and with a dark central spot which varies from barely perceptible to very extensive, forming an almost complete transversal band across hemelytron. Membrane smoky brown, distinctly darker than corium, in many specimens darkest on basal area of membranal cells. Legs uniformly dark. Fore and mid femora with l + l small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen convex below, minutely striate transversally, shortly pilose. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture . Color of venter from piceous to black except area of variable extension adjacent to connexival suture . Connexival segments piceous or black on anterior half or third across their entire width, pale or orange-yellow on posterior portion.
Triatoma dispar@Triatoma dispar Lent Figures 65, 66 Conorrhinus venosus Champion, 1899, p. 209, pl. 12, fig.23 (nee Stal). Triatoma venosa: Usinger, 1944, p. 61, pl. 9, fig.I (nee Stal). Triatoma dispar Lent, 1950, p. 437, figs. 3, 4Le6n, 1953, p. 3, fig.D. Galindo and Fairchild, 1962, p. 229. Vargas and Montero, 1971, p. 454, figs. 1-4. Length of male 21.0-22.5 mm, of female 23-24 mm, width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5 mm, of female 7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 8.0-8.5 mm Overall color dark reddish brown, with black markings on head, fore lobe of pronotum and connexivum, and with red or yellowish red markings on hind lobe of pronotum, scutellum, connexivum, and hemelytra. Pilosity conspicuous, decumbent, golden colored. Head rugose and granulose, reddish brown, with 1 + 1 glabrous black stripes extending dorsally from level of base of clypeus to ocellar tubercles, enclosing elevated median granulose band. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.5), and longer than pronotum (1:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.3), postocular with sides only very feebly convex, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus extremely narrow, only very slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrow, rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.9-1.0. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region of head. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with decumbent setae of two sizes, the larger ones slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.0-2.4:2.2:1.8. Rostrum reddish brown, with short, inconspicuous setae. First rostral segment short, not extending beyond middle of genae, second very long and slender, reaching to level of posterior border of head; third longer than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.4-3.8:1.3-1.4. Neck uniformly reddish brown. Pronotum of general reddish brown color. Anterior lobe with elevated areas reddish brown, smooth areas black. Posterior lobe dark brown, with submedian carinae, one median and 1 + 1 sublateral elongate red markings extending from transverse furrow to posterior margin of pronotum, red. Lateral and posterior margins of pronotum also red, except area occupied by submedian dark markings which extend to hind border. Anterolateral angles extensively reddish. Anterior lobe with 1+ 1 well-developed discal tubercles, and 1+ 1 smaller posterosublateral ones; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe heavily rugose and wrinkled. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded, with humeri distinctly elevated. Anterolateral projections subtriangular, salient, elongate, somewhat compressed laterally. Scutellum reddish brown, in some cases black at middle of central depression, anteriorly with convolute wrinkles. Posterior process of scutellum light red or yellowish, stout, not over half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, roundedtruncate apically. Pleura reddish brown, acetabula lighter. Hemelytra covering entire length of abdomen, including genitalia of female. Color of hemelytra dark brown; most veins yellowish, those of membrane dark but bordered with yellow. Corium with short accessory veinlike elements, their color also yellow. Clavus yellow on basal third, blackish on apical twothirds. Area of corium adjacent to apical portion of clavus deeply black, similar black areas on basal portions of membranal cells, very conspicuously so on base of outer membranal cell. Lumen of membranal cells and of adjacent areas of membrane variegated with pale yellowish. Legs dark reddish brown, relatively slender, with fore femur seven times as long as wide. Femora nodulose, nodules light red; pilosity distinct. Fore and mid femora subapically with four or five denticles, hind femora with two. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen rounded or very slightly flattened below, minutely striate transversally. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Pilosity of venter distinct, decumbent, or adpressed. Venter from reddish brown to dark brown; spiracles yellowish. Connexivum black, each segment with two orangeyellow marks: one, incomplete, on anterior third of disc of segment, adjacent to outer but not attaining inner border of segment, the other large spot extending over entire width of segment, situated on its basal third, adjoining intersegmental suture which is also light colored; dark markings (in some specimens) much reduced, as shown in figure 66D.
Triatoma eratyrusiformis@Triatoma eratyrusiformis Del Ponte Figures 67-69 Triatoma eratyrusiforme Del Ponte, 1929, p. 5, fig.I; 1930, p. 871, fig.5, pl. 45. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. Ill, figs. 38, 51, 56, 210-230. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 66, fig.27. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 31, figs. 17, 18. Mariluis, 1974, p. 7, figs. 1-10. Triatoma ninoi Carcavallo, Martinez, Prosen and Cichero, 1964, p. 152, figs. I-7 (new synonymy). Triatoma ninioi Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 67, pl. 2, fig.3. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 39, fig.22. Mariluis, 1974, figs. 11-15. Eratyrus eratyrusiforme: Pinto, 1931, p. 134. Mazza and Jorg, 1937, p. 44, figs. 9-13. Length of male 18.5-21.0 mm, of female 21-24 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5 mm, of female 5-6 mm; width of abdomen of male 6-7 mm, of female 7.0-7.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with connexivum and portions of adjacent urostemites orange yellow or rarely pale yellow colored. Head and thorax from highly polished to rarely dull. Body hairs short except long hairs on appendages . Head very dark, transversally rugose dorsally and irregularly so laterally, very weakly granulose; less than twice as long as wide (l:0.6-0.7) and longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3-0.35); postocular with sides faintly convex, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened at apex and gradually so on posterior half. Genae blunt apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, wideangled apically. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.4-1.9. Ocelli very large, their length equal to their distance from eye. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment from almost attaining to very slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment as in spinolai , viz., with numerous semierect ciliate hairs about twice as long as diameter of segment and less numerous setae from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment; similar hairs and setae on third and fourth segments. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-4.0:2.6-3.0:1.5-1.8. Rostrum reddish brown, lighter than head capsule. Rostral segments slender, compressed dorsoventrally; first and second segments with hairs approximately as long as diameter of segments, but much longer than diameter of segments on apex of second dorsally and on entire third segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1.8:0.5-0.6. Neck somewhat lighter than head capsule, with 1 + 1 small distinct yellow spots laterally. Pronotum uniformly dark, its surface in most cases highly polished, rarely only slightly polished or dull. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, with 1 + 1 low but invariably distinct discal tubercles; lateral tubercles small, variable, from perceptible to absent. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose and wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third of hind lobe. Humeri angular, from slightly projecting to conspicuously flaring and explanate; invariably pointed. Anterolateral projections small, from blunt to narrowly conical. Scutellum with surface heavily rugose, its median depression ill defined, from narrowly linear to absent. Posterior scutellar process half as long as main body of scutellum, very narrowly conical, sharply tapered distally, its apex in most specimens obliquely elevated. Mesosternum limited posteriorly by prominent straight transverse carina. Metasternum longitudinally carinate along middle and behind . Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium dark brown or black; membrane fumose, somewhat lighter brown. Legs uniformly dark brown, slender. Fore femur 6.5-8.5 times as long as wide. Femora inermous. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossula, absent in female. Femora of fore legs and frequently but not invariably also those of mid and hind legs with scattered but distinct long setae; similar but very numerous setae on all tibiae. Venter convex, in female flattened longitudinally along middle but not sharply so. Venter minutely striate transversally, and with fine semierect setae on posterior segments. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Connexivum orange or rarely pale yellow, with areas of lighter color slightly advancing onto urosternites along intersegmental sutures. Disc of connexival segments with large dark spot occupying entire width of connexivum; light areas of connexivum straddling intersegmental sutures, varying from smaller to larger than dark portions.
Triatoma flavida@Triatoma flavida Neiva Figures 70, 71 Rhodosisu probixus: Valdes, 1910, p. 435 (sic; nee Stl). Rhoduris prolixus: Valdes, 1914, p. IOI (sic; nee Stl). Rhodnius prolixus: Hoffman, 1922, p. 263 (nee StI). Triatoma flavida Neiva, 1911c, p. 441. Hoffmann, 1923, p. 299, figs. 1-2. Autuori, 1932, p. 271, figs. 1-6 Conorhinus flavida: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Meccus jlavidus: Fracker and Bruner, 1924, p. 165. Eutriatoma flavida: Pinto, 1931, p. 88, fig.33 Bruner and Barber, 1937, p. 183 Triatoma (Eutriatoma) flavida: Lima, 1940, p. 198. Nesotriatomaflavida: Usinger, 1944, p. 39; 1946, p 20. Maldonado and Farr, 1962, p. 190, figs. 19, 20. Alayo, 1967, p. 28, pl. 6, fig.2Nesotriatoma bruneri Usinger, 1944, p. 39, pl. 8, fig.E. Length of male 21-28 mm, of female 24-30 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5-7 mm, of abdomen of male and female 7-9 mm Overall color light yellowish brown, with small dark brown spots; under surface dark. Integument rugose and faintly granulose in some areas. Setae very short, scalelike , sparse. Head dorsally strongly rugose and faintly granulose, light yellowish brown, with l + 1 longitudinal dark brown or black stripes extending from level of antenniferous tubercles to neck. Head laterally and ventrally dark brown, rugose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.5), and slightly longer than or as long as pronotum (l:0.9-1.0). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.33-0.38), postocular with sides subparallel, very slightly converging behind. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened behind middle, and very narrow again on posterior third. Genae attaining level of apex of clypeus, narrowly tapering apically but not pointed. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2 in small specimens, 1:1.7 in large males and 1:1.5 in large females. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments from yellowish brown to dark brown; first segment falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.7-3.1:1.9-2.4:1.5. Rostrum slender, with short inconspicuous setae except scattered long hairs on distal segment. First rostral segment not attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck; third shorter than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.4-2.6:0.7-0.8. Neck dark brown, with l + l lateral yellow spots. Pronotum of general body color; smooth area of fore lobe black, impressions of posterior lobe dark brown. Posterior lobe margined with dark along declivous hind border. Anterior lobe with discal and lateral tubercles. Tubercles of varying size, the discal ones from rounded to strong subconical; development of tubercles not correlated with overall size of specimens. Hind lobe with sides strongly flaring, heavily and irregularly rugose, not granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of lobe, interrupted by transverse rugosities. Humeral angles entirely yellowish, angular, explanate. Anterolateral angles yellowish, elongate conical with narrowly rounded apex. Scutellum dark, elevated portion yellowish, coarsely and irregularly rugose, anteriorly with l + l forwardly inclined projections of variable size, overlapping declivous posterior margin of pronotum . Carinae limiting central depression of scutellum divided by transverse rugosities into a series of tubercles. Posterior process of scutellum yellowish, horizontal, subcylindrical, swollen apically, rounded at tip. Hemelytra slightly variable in length, reaching to seventh urotergite, in some cases not extending beyond its basal third, in others covering urotergite completely. Hemelytra of general color, extensively mottled with irregularly shaped dark dots of variable size. Dots most numerous and densest at base of membranal cells, otherwise membrane not or only very slightly darker than corium. Legs dark reddish brown, relatively slender; fore femur from six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora ventrally on apical half with from eight to ten very small setiferous denticles, some arranged in pairs, others single; subapical denticles the largest. Tibiae of first and second pairs of legs of males with spongy fossulae; females with spongy fossulae only on fore tibiae, or absent. Abdomen with venter from convex to, in most cases, slightly but distinctly flattened, in both sexes. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of relatively coarse transverse striation. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture, their distance from suture equal to at least diameter of spiracles. Pilosity of venter very short, sparse, adpressed, scalelike . Venter dark reddish brown, spiracles enclosed in small yellow area. Connexivum light yellowish brown; in wellpreserved specimens each segment with two dark spots: a large anterior one adjacent to anterior margin of segment, irregularly shaped posteriorly, extending across entire width of segment although darkest along outer margin, and one very small dot, obsolescent in some specimens, adjacent to posterior border of segment, remote from lateral margin.
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@Triatoma gerstaeckeri (Stal) Figures 72, 73 Conorhinus gerstaeckeri Stal, 1859, p. Ill. Triatoma gerstaeckeri: Neiva, 1914, p. 40. Van Duzee, 1916, p. 248. Pinto, 1931, p. 65, fig.13. Packchanian, 1939, p. 1548, pis. 1-3. Usinger, 1944, p. 56, pl. I, fig.G, pl. 4, pl. 9, fig.G. Eads, 1957, p. 27. Length of male 23-26 mm, of female 24.0-28.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-6.5 mm, of female 5.5-7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5-9.5 mm , of female 9.5-11.0 mm Color from dark brown to black, with yellow or orange-yellow markings on neck, corium, and connexivum. Setae short and very sparse, inconspicuous. Head slightly rugose above along midline, otherwise smooth, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and of varied length as compared to pronotum (l:0.9-1.1). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus very narrow, its posterior portion widening gradually. Genae tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view approaching level of upper and attaining or slightly surpassing level of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.9. Ocelli large, their distance from eyes equal to their diameter. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with strong decumbent setae at least as long as diameter of segment, as well as with numerous short, delicate erect hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-4.0:2.3-3.0:2.1-2.5. Rostrum with very short and sparse setae, longest and most numerous on third segment. First segment attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of base of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5-1.6:0.45-0.5. Neck black, laterally with 1 + 1 conspicuous yellow spots. Pronotum of general body color, distinctly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe slightly elevated, smooth, ridges not prominent. Discal and lateral tubercles present. Posterior lobe heavily rugose; submedian carinae not attaining posterior border. Lateral margins carinate , slightly reflexed. Humeri faintly angulate. Anterolateral angles obliquely forward directed, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Scutellum with depressed portion shallowly rugose, limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally; downward bent at apex. Hemelytra in most specimens attaining apex of abdomen, in some individuals, mainly females, falling short of apex by 0.5 to 1.0 mm Overall color of hemelytra from dark brown to black, somewhat lighter on and adjacent to apex of clavus. Clavus black basally, smoky brown apically. Base of corium strikingly light yellow or orange-yellow, best observed on deflexed portion of base of hemelytron; a narrow line along basal half of margin of corium also yellow; a small yellowish subapical spot in many cases present. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora eight to nine times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with 1 + 1 small denti cles. Fore and mid tibiae of males with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Abdomen rounded below, with minute transverse wrinkles. Hairs of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from latter by about twice their diameter. Abdomen from dark brown to black. Connexival segments with transverse yellow or orange-yellow markings, occupying posterior third or fourth of each segment adjacent to intersegmental sutures; yellow spots projecting narrowly onto urosternites. Spiracles light colored.
Triatoma guasayana@Triatoma guasayana Wygodzinsky and Abalos Figures 74-76 Triatoma guasayana Wygodzinsky and Abalos, 1949, p. 2; 1950, p. 54, figs. I, 4-6, 8-11. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 84, figs. 40, 45, 62, 150-174. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 37, fig.11. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 34, fig.20. Length of male 16.0-18.5 mm, of female 18.0-20.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 6-9 mm Overall color very dark brown or black, with pale yellow markings on neck, hemelytra, legs and connexivum. Integument with short sparse setae. Head dark, rugose and granulose, heavily so on sides of head before and behind eyes. Head slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55-0.60) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.90). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, only slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering or pointed distally, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-2.0. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment compressed, beset with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.6-3.8:2.5-2.8:2.0-2.4. Rostrum from yellowish to light brown, contrasting with dark head. Setae of rostrum sparse and short, those of apical segment more elongate, but not longer than diameter of segment. First rostral segment very short, extending only to level of apex of jugae, second not quite reaching level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.60-1.95:1.10-1.20. Neck dark, with a pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum sparsely granulose, blackish, in some specimens with anterior and lateral tubercles of anterior lobe and with apex of anterolateral projections yellowish. Anterior lobe with discal and with lateral tubercles, none prominent. Posterior lobe strongly wrinkled, uniformly dark. Submedian carinae not prominent, evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded, subangular. Anterolateral projections of pronotum small, conical, somewhat flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression. Posterior process of scutellum slightly less than half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, obliquely truncate at apex, in lateral view. Pleura dark, acetabula with small areas yellowish. Hemelytra attaining or surpassing apex of seventh urotergite in male, in female more variable in length, from falling short of apex of seventh urotergite by up to 2 mm to closely approaching it. Corium largely pale yellow, irregularly darkened at center, with veins of central portion conspicuouslydark. Membrane fumose, light brown, much lighter than darker portions of corium. Veins of membrane somewhat darker than cells but not strikingly so, and portion of Cu separating cells not darker than remainder of vein and not bordered with dark. Legs with coxae dark brown; trochantera and femora pale yellow, the latter with subapical annulus, in some cases also darkened subbasally. Tibiae from yellow to brown, with narrow basal annulus very pale, and apex darkest; yellow portions of legs of varying color intensity. Legs relatively slender, fore femora about six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of stout denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Venter convex, very slightly flattened in females, delicately striate transversally. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Venter uniformly brown except small areas at outer margin adjacent to connexivum; the latter pale yellow, dorsally and ventrally with dark spot at margin, straddling intersegmental suture; in some cases, transverse narrow dark line along intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma guazu@Triatoma guazu, new species Figures 77-79 DIAGNOSIS: This species resembles T oliveirai, but differs from the latter by many characters, such as the short rostral setae, the larger eyes and ocelli, the unicolorous pronotum, the horizontal scutellar process, the nonabbreviated hemelytra, and the quite different shape of the ninth urotergite. Female (only sex known). Length 30 mm, width of pronotum 7 mm, of abdomen 12 mm Overall color black, with yellow markings on neck, corium and connexivum . Pilosity short and sparse; integument polished. Head black, rugose, weakly granulose, twice as long as wide (1:0.5), and longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, only slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae narrowly rounded distally. Eyes large, in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower and but little distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.25. Ocelli large, their distance from eyes equal to their length. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.8:2.8:?. Rostrum dark reddish brown; first article falling slightly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind margin of eyes. Rostrum stout, with relatively sparse hairs, shorter than diameter of respective articles, longest at base of third article dorsally. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.5:1.2. Neck black, with l+ 1 lateral spots yellow. Pronotum entirely black. Anterior lobe weakly sculptured, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose; submedian carinae extending to posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeri broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections laterally directed, very small, subconical. Scutellum black, strongly rugose, median depression shallow, small. Posterior process of scutellum short, one-half as long as main body of sclerite, narrowly rounded distally, horizontal, with apex slightly downtumed. Hemelytra attaining apex of eighth urotergite, their overall color pale. Clavus black at base and narrowly along outer border. Basal half of corium light yellow; apical half of corium and entire membrane light yellowish brown; membrane fumose. Veins of hemelytra dark brown except pale at base of corium. Legs entirely black. Fore femora 6.3 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of small subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae absent (male unknown). Abdomen wide , with most urotergites narrowly exposed. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, with sparse short setae. Spiracles close to but not adjoining connexival suture . Apex of abdomen as shown in figure 79D, with sides of eighth urotergite rounded. Urosternites black. Connexivum black, disc of each segment with large subrectangular yellow spot, extending ventrally from outer margin to connexival suture and enclosing spiracle on adjacent portion of urosternite; dorsally, yellow spot not attaining connexival suture. Intersegmental sutures enclosed in narrow transverse black band.
Triatoma hegneri@Triatoma hegneri Mazzotti Figures 80, 81 Triatoma hegneri Mazzotti, 1940c, p. 22, I fig.Usinger, 1944, p. 55, pl. 9, fig.B. Male (female unknown). Length 28-29 mm; width of pronotum 6.5-7.0 mm, of abdomen 10.5-11.0 mm . Overall color from dark brown to black, with orange-yellow spots on neck and connexivum and yellow markings on corium. Setae very short and sparse, inapparent. Head transversely rugose dorsally, punctate, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.45-0.50) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.3); postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Genae tapering distally, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not quite attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.3. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus, appearing bare, viz., its setae very short and sparse. Second segment with strong declinate setae about as long as diameter of segment, as well as with very numerous short, delicate, erect hairs. Ratio of first two antennal segments 1:2.5-3.0. Rostrum with very short, inconspicuous hairs, becoming longer only on third segment. First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8-2.0:0.5-0.6. Neck dark, with l + l orange yellow spots laterally. Pronotum with anterior lobe black, posterior lobe contrastingly dark reddish brown. Pronotum distinctly constricted laterally at level of transverse sulcus. Surface of anterior lobe smooth, glabrous, with low carinae. Discal and lateral tubercles small but distinct. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose, in some specimens sublateral carinae crossed by rugosities; carinae not attaining posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded. Scutellum with central portion depressed, rugose, not limited by distinct ridges. Posterior process stout, about as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, slightly deflected apically. Anterolateral angles shortly conical, pointed, laterally directed. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium without perceptible setae, yellow, with large central dark spot of variable size but not reaching costal margin; apex of corium dark. Legs of medium length, fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid legs. Abdomen flattened below longitudinally along middle, but flattened portion not sharply divided from lateral rounded portion of venter. Urosternites minutely striate transversally. Hairs of venter inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by from one to two times their diameter. Venter and connexivum uniformly dark, or connexival segments on posteroextemal angle each with small orange yellow spot of variable extension, extending onto connexival suture .
Triatoma incrassata@Triatoma incrassata U singer Figures 82, 83 Triatoma incrassata Usinger, 1939, p. 45; 1944, p. 70, pl. 12, fig.D. Triatoma incrassata incrassata: Ryckman, 1962, p. 109, pl. 9, fig.Q. Triatoma incrassata apachensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 119, pl. 9, fig.R. Length of male 17.5, of female 19.0-19.8 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0, of female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male 6.0, of females 6.5 mm Head granulose, distinctly convex above, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region over twice as long as postocular (1:0.4), postocular with sides rounded but less prominently so than in barberi, verrucose. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, very strongly swollen posteriorly. Head with distinctive arcuate impression at base of clypeus. Genae narrowly tapered anteriorly, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head in side view with clypeus and region above eyes strongly elevated, separated by very deep depression; under surface sinuate, salient behind eyes. Eyes remote from level of dorsal and almost attaining level of under surface of head. Eyes small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:3.0-3.5. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending beyond two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with short adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.9-3.2:2.3-2.4:1.8. Rostrum with relatively short hairs, the latter becoming longer at apex of second and uniformly long on third segment. First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.25:0.40. Neck with I+ 1 lateral light-colored spots. Pronotum uniformly dark, trapezoi dal, with sides conspicuously diverging toward behind, delicately carinate, only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe distinctly elevated, granulose on rough areas, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose, submedian carinae falling short of hind margin. Humeri rounded, distinctly elevated. Anterolateral angles salient, anterolaterally directed, rounded apically. Scutellum rugose, central portion distinctly impressed, limited laterally by sharp carinae. Apical process of scutellum very short, conical, half as long as main body of scutellum, its apex deflected. Hemelytra falling short of apex of abdomen by 0.5 mm in female, practically attaining apex of abdomen in male; of general body color, but membrane dark brown, fumose, somewhat lighter colored along base. Legs uniformly dark, short and stout; fore femora 3.5-3.7 times as long as wide, minutely granulose. Fore and mid femora with four to five small denticles subapically. Male with minute spongy fossula on fore and mid tibiae. Females with spongy fossula on fore tibia only. Venter convex, its setae inconspicuous. Urosternites minutely striate transversally. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum entirely yellow ventrally and broadly along entire connexival margin dorsally; inner portion of dorsal connexival segments of general body color.
Triatoma indictiva@Triatoma indictiva Neiva Figures 84, 85 Triatoma indictiva Neiva, 1912, p. 22. Pinto, 1931, p. 66, figs. 18, 19. Triatoma sanguisuga indictiva: Usinger, 1944, p. 68, pl. 11, fig.E. Triatoma sanguisuga occidentalis Usinger, 1944, p. 69, pl. 11, fig.D. Length of male 18.0-20.5 mm, of female 18.5-22.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 5.0-5.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 6.5-7.5 mm, of female 7-8 mm Overall color from piceous to black, with reddish markings on connexivum; base and subapical region of corium faintly lightened, hind lobe of pronotum equally somewhat lighter, possibly due to fading of preserved specimens; lighter areas in no case distinctly contrasting with dark areas. Pilosity inconspicuous, most distinct on under surface of abdomen and on legs. Head granulose, about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5-0.6), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.0-1.1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.4). Postocular region distinctly rounded in dorsal view. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.35-1.70 (1:0.8-1.1 in specimens from west coast of Mexico). Ocelli comparatively small, their diameter smaller than their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles situated on basal third of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of apex of clypeus; second segment only with adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3:2.0:1.7. Rostrum only with short, scattered hairs; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.75-1.85:0.50. Neck with I+ I lateral reddish spots. Pronotum uniformly piceous or black, almost imperceptibly lightened on posterior lobe. Anterior lobe with I+ I low but distinct discal tubercles; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe rugose; submedian carinae extending along entire length of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, not distinctly elevated. Anterolateral angles of pronotum short and stout, conical or blunt and widely rounded apically. Scutellum heavily rugose, with cordiform central depression, sublateral carinae acute, continuous. Apical scutellar process straight, narrow, apex deflected, rounded, process almost as long as main body of scutellum. Hemelytra attammg apex of abdomen. Corium with short, inconspicuous concolorous setae. Hemelytra uniformly dark brown or piceous when observed directly, but with faint lighter markings on corium basally and subapically, as well as on clavus when seen with magnification. Legs uniformly dark, stout, fore femora about six times as long as wide. Femora of first and second pairs with I+ I subapical pointed denticles. Tibiae of first and second pairs of male with minute spongy fossula, absent in female. Abdomen except connexivum uniformly dark; ventrally with abundant but short pilosity; delicately striate transversally. Spiracles close to but not contiguous with connexival suture . Connexivum from piceous to black; posterior sixth or seventh of each connexival segment narrowly reddish, reddish color extending on to suture; markings identical ventrally and dorsally, not extending on urosternites. Venter from convex to slightly flattened on center longitudinally.
Triatoma infestans@Triatoma infestans (Klug) Figures 24A, F, L; 25F; 26F; 270; 30A, B; 87-90 Reduvius infestans Klug in Meyen, 1834, p. 412. Conorhinus infestans: Berg, 1879a, p. 266. Reed, 1901, p. 94. Triatoma infestans: Neiva, 19lld, p. 462; 1914a, p 45. Porter, 1920, p. 16, fig.2. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 876, pl. 47, fig.I. Pinto, 1930, p. 216, figs49-51, pl. 4, fig.I; 1931, p. 68, fig.19. Mazza and Jorg, 1940, p. 3, figs. 1-13. Wygodzinsky, 1949, p. 337. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 54, figs. 36, 49, 58, 64-80. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 45Conorhinus renggeri Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p. 71, pl. 271, fig.838 Conorhinus sex-tuberculatus Spinola in Gay, 1852, p. 218. Conorrhinus paulseni Philippi, 1860, p. 156. Conorrhinus gracilipes Philippi, 1860, p. 156. Conorrhinus octotuberculatus Philippi, 1860, p. 156. Conorhinus gigas Burmeister, 1861, p. 167 (nee Fab- ricius) Conorhinus nigrovarius Blanchard, 1890, p. 473. Triatoma infestans erythrophthalmus Noe and Silva, 1949, p. 5. Triatoma oswaldoi Neiva and Pinto, 1923b, p. 46. Eutriatoma oswaldoi: Nifio, 1936, p. 607. Triatoma sordelli Dios and Zuccarini, 1926, p. 179, pl. I. Triatoma mazzae Jorg, 1937, p. 33, figs. 1-9, 11-14. Length of male 21-26 mm, of female 26-29 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 6.0-6.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 8-10 mm, of female 8.5-10.0 mm Overall color black (dark brown in many museum specimens), with yellow markings on corium, legs, and connexivum. Integument sparsely granulose; pilosity short and sparse. Head black, delicately rugose and sparsely granulose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.50-0.55), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.3), the latter with sides rounded. Clypeus widened on posterior half. Genae rounded distally, slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view very close to or attaining level of under surface of head but remote from level of its upper surface. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.8. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed bristles not more than half as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.5-3.7:2.9-3.3:2.0-2.3. Rostrum as dark as or distinctly lighter colored than head. Setae of rostrum very short on first and most of under surface of second segment. Distal portion of under surface of second segment and its entire upper surface as well as entire third segment dorsally, ventrally, and laterally with dense hairs much longer than diameter of segment, longest at base of third segment and progressively decreasing in length toward apex of rostrum. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not quite reaching level of apex of antenniferous tubercles. Second segment attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-2.0:1.0. Neck black, with I+ 1 lateral spots yellow. Pronotum uniformly shining black. Anterior lobe with I+ 1 small discal tubercles, their apex in many cases yellowish, and in some specimens with l + 1 feeble posterosublateral tubercles; lateral tubercles invariably present although small. Elevated portions of anterior lobe setose but not granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third of hind lobe but evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded; humeri distinctly elevated, convex. Anterolateral projections short and blunt. Scutellum entirely black, strongly rugose, with distinct central depression. Posterior process of scutellum elongate, conical, wide at base, narrowly tapering apically, horizontal, slightly shorter than main body of scutellum. Hemelytra falling short of apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Overall color of hemelytra dark, with corium almost black but membrane brown, fumose, not as dark as dark portions of corium. Clavus black, with large pale yellow spots at base. Corium in most specimens with one pale yellow spot subbasally and invariably with yellow subapical spot situated at apex of cell formed by r and m. Veins of membrane dark. Legs with fore femur from five to six times as long as wide. Legs black, with trochantera and bases of femora conspicuously yellow; in some specimens, a faint yellow subbasal annulus on tibiae and a somewhat light-colored area on femor submedially. Fore and mid femora with 1 + l small subapical denticles, very rarely present also on hind femur. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, rather coarsely striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously setose. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark brown to black. Connexivum black, each segment with large yellow spot, remote from anterior but closely approaching posterior border of segment and adjoining connexival suture; yellow area briefly extending on urostemite mainly at area of spiracles.
Triatoma lecticularia@Triatoma lecticularia (Stal) Figures 24K; 91-93 Conorhinus lecticularius Stal, 1859:107. Triatoma lecticularius: Usinger, 1944, p. 62. Thur- man et al., 1948, p. 59, fig.I. Conorhinus lenticularius: Stal, 1868: 124 (sic). Conorhinus variegatus Stal, 1872, p. 111 (pro parte). Triatoma heidemanni Neiva, 19llc, p. 441; 1914a, p. 41. Blatchley, 1926, p. 554. Pinto, 1931, p. 66, fig.15. Packchanian, 1940, p. 1300, pl. l, figs. 1-33. Usinger, 1943, p. 604, figs. IA, B. Conorhinus heidemanni: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Triatoma occulta Neiva, 19llc, p. 441; 1914a, p. 56. Triatoma lecticularius occulta: Usinger, 1944, p. 63, pl. l, fig.L; pl. ll, fig.H. Triatoma sanguisuga Neiva, 1914a, p. 63 (pro parte) Conorhinus lectularius: Neiva, 1914a, p. 63. Conorhinus occulata Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Triatoma \ecticularius ftoridana Usinger, 1944, p. 63, pl. ll, fig.G. Length of male 16-22 mm, of female 18-23 mm, width of pronotum of male 3.7-5.5 mm, of female 4.2-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 5-8 mm, of female 6.5-8.5 mm Overall color piceous, with orange or orange-yellow markings on pronotum, pleura, corium, connexivum, and ventral surface of abdomen. Pilosity well developed on entire body including corium. Head granulose, uniformly dark, conspicuously convex between eyes; slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1-1.2). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides convex, converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.3 (1: 1.4 in Florida specimens). Antenniferous tubercles situated on posterior third of anteocular region, comparatively close to eyes. First antennal segment falling short of apex of clypeus; second segment with short hairs only. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4-3.7:2:1.8. Rostrum conspicuously hairy, especially on second and third segments; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5:0.5. Neck of uniform light color. Pronotum dark, with 1+ 1 orange bands on lateral margins of posterior lobe, narrow anteriorly, becoming wider posteriorly and extending onto humeri; posterior margin of pronotum in some specimens lighter colored, as are submedian carinae and collar with anterolateral processes; in some specimens, dark areas of posterior lobe of pronotum reduced to one wide median and 1 + 1 sublateral stripes, with orange color extending as 1 + 1 wide lateral and 1+ 1 submedian spots occupying carinae and triangularly widened posteriorly, confluent behind with lateral markings. Anterior lobe without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose, with conspicuous dark setae on entire surface; submedian carinae evanescent posteriorly. Humeral angles rounded, slightly elevated. Anterolateral angles short, rounded apically. Pleura dark, acetabula yellowish in many specimens. Scutellum dark; central portion only very slightly depressed, limited by irregular carinae; apical process shorter than main body of scutellum, setose, tapering distally, its apex deflected. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium with large central spot of general color, with basal and subapical spots orange-yellow; outer border of corium narrowly bordered with light color; entire surface of corium with conspicuous adpressed black setae . Legs hairy, dark, but with coxae in many cases lightened. Fore and mid femora with 2+2 very short denticles subapically. Tibiae of first and second pair of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen convex below in male, from convex to distinctly flattened in center longitudinally in female. Surface sculpture consisting of irregular wrinkles, delicate transverse striation limited to small areas. Spiracles remote from connexival suture . Venter conspicuously pilose, piceous with orangeyellow markings at level of light-colored connexival markings, covering intersegmental sutures and extending along lateral borders of urosternites; in some cases, entire venter tinged with orange, especially on basal half. Connexival segments dark, posteriorly with orange-yellow spot narrowly extending across intersegmental suture onto anterior portion of following segment; extension of light markings variable. Connexivum with distinct adpressed setae.
Triatoma lenti@Triatoma lenti Sherlock and Serafim Figures 24J; 94, 95 Triatoma lenti Sherlock and Serafim, 1967, p. 76, figs. I, 5, 6, 8-10, 14-16. Triatoma pessoai Sherlock and Serafim, 1967, p. 80, figs. 2, 4, 7, 11-13, 17-19 (new synonymy). Triatoma bahiensis Sherlock and Serafim, 1967, p. 86, figs. 3, 20-22 (new synonymy). Triatoma pessoai var. bahiensis: Sherlock and Serafim, 1972, p. 268. Length of male 25-26 mm, of female 26.5-27.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.5-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.5-l0.0 mm; of female ll mm . Overall color black, with yellow or orangeyellow markings on neck and connexivum, rarely on corium. Pilosity short and sparse. Head black, feebly rugose and granulosepunctate, approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.80-0.85). Anteocular region four to five times as long as postocular (1:0.20-0.25), postocular with sides slightly rounded, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae rounded apically. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.1-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles unusually long and slender, their apex situated slightly before middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. First, second, and extreme base of third segment black, remainder contrastingly yellow. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.4-4.25:2.1-2.5:1.8-2.1. Rostrum black; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending approximately to level of center of eye or slightly longer, but invariably falling short of level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical, with medium-sized hairs, becoming as long as or longer than diameter of respective segments on upper surface of apical portion of second and on entire third segment, especially numerous on upper surface. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-2.1:0.7-0.9. Neck black, with pair of lateral orange-yellow spots. Pronotum entirely black. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not granulose, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose. Submedian carinae extending over twothirds or three-fourths of lobe, evanescent posteriorly. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections short, stout, rounded apically. Scutellum with median depression shallow, its posterior process elongate, about as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal, rugose at base, rounded apically. Hemelytra in most cases conspicuously shorter than abdomen; in males generally not extending beyond base or middle of seventh urotergite; in female, hemelytra extending to middle or to apical portion of sixth urotergite. Corium and clavus black, membrane fumose, dark brown, with black veins; small yellowish stripe between apical portion of corium and adjacent area of membrane. Rarely, corium with small basal and somewhat larger subapical spots whitish. Legs uniformly black, slender. Fore femora seven to eight times as long as wide, conspicuously narrowed submedially . Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen unusually wide ; lateral portions of urotergites not covered by hemelytra. Venter convex, almost imperceptibly flattened in female, delicately striate transversally, with sparse short setae. Urosternites dark brown or black, except small yellow areas enclosing spiracles. Connexivum black, with disc of each segment occupied by yellow or orange-yellow spot; size of light-colored spots variable , attaining or not connexival suture, and almost invariably remote from intersegmental sutures and generally closer to anterior than to posterior suture.
Triatoma leopoldi@Triatoma leopoldi (Schouteden) Figures 96, 97 Conorhinus leopoldi Schouteden, 1933, p. 64. Triatoma leopoldi: Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 186. Lent, 1951d, p. 426; 1953b, p. 316. Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Triatoma novaeguineae Miller, 1958, p. 67, figs93-95. Monteith, 1974, p. 91, figs. 1, 2 (new synonymy). Length of male 19.5-20.5 mm, of female 21-23 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5, of female 5.5-6.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5 mm, of female 8.5-9.5 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with yellowish or orange-red markings on pronotum, corium and connexivum. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Pilosity short, inapparent. Head granulose and slightly rugose dorsally, dark reddish brown with 1 + 1 longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally. Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6) and as long as pronotum (1:1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.35); postocular with sides slightly rounded, convergent posteriorly. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened on basal half. Genae pointed apically. In lateral view, eyes attaining or slightly surpassing level of lower surface but not reaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.9-2.3. Distance of ocelli from hind border of eyes subequal to length of diameter of ocelli. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first segment small, its apex falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.8-4.5:2.5-3.0:2.5. Rostrum with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment, setae not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.4-l.6:0.4. Pronotum dark brown or black, with collar and anterolateral processes, lateral margins, elevated areas of anterior lobe, and large central spot and lateral areas of posterior lobe, light reddish brown. Central light spot of posterior lobe elongate subtriangular, beginning narrowly at level of transverse suture, widening posteriorly and attaining posterior margin of pronotum. Lateral markings of posterior lobe elongate, widest on humeri, from there extending shortly mesad to area of median carinae, thus irregular L-shaped. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated areas, with obsolescent discal and without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily rugose, faintly granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior border. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles narrowly conical, conspicuously pointed. Scutellum with sides dark, central area and posterior process red. Central depression and limiting ridges distinct. Posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male; in female extending only slightly beyond center of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish red at base and subapically. Clavus, apex of corium and large spot of variable size at center of corium, dark brown or black. Large central spot of corium connected to apical dark spot or not, partially separated from costal margin by narrow yellow line along margin. Membrane as dark as darkest area of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 3-4 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in male, more distinctly but not conspicuously so in female. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark reddish brown; pilosity inapparent. Connexivum yellowish or orange-red, dorsally and ventrally with large dark spot at center of each segment, spots not attaining outer border or intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma limai@Triatoma limai Del Ponte Figures 98-100 Triatoma limai Del Ponte, 1929, p. 6, fig.6. Neotriatoma limai: Pinto, 1931, p. 122. Mazza and Jorg, 1937, p. 33, figs. 1-5. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 124, figs. 240, 242-25la. Triatoma (Neotriatoma) limai: Lima, 1940, p. 198. Triatoma circummaculata limai: Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 45, figs. 17, 18. Length of male 15-17, of female 16.5-18.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm, width of abdomen of male 6 mm, of female 6.0-6.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with pale yellow markings on corium and connexivum. Pilosity very short, inconspicuous. Head of general body color, distinctly rugose and granulose, with setae- short, inapparent. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.5), and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region about two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0.40-0.45); postocular with sides distinctly convex, angularly projecting. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae large, rounded distally, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.1-1.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, not projecting beyond middle of genae. Second antennal segment comparatively thick, very slightly flattened, beset with longitudinally arranged stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.5:3.3:2.5. Rostrum of same color or only slightly lighter than head. Setae of rostrum very short and sparse, except scattered longer ones at apex of third segment. First rostral segment very short, not attaining basal third of distance between apex of antenniferous tubercle and apex of head. Second rostral segment extending to level of anterior margin of eyes, third as long as second, reaching to or even beyond base of neck. First rostral segment subcylindrical, second slightly and third very strongly flattened dorsoventrally, very thin in lateral view. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3:2.3-2.4. Neck dark, with a pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum uniformly dark brown, in some cases humeri slightly lighter. Anterior lobe delicately granulose on elevated portions, and without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum sublaterally directed, subconical, very short. Scutellum of general body color, with distinct median depression. Posterior process subcylindrical, horizontal or slightly upward bent at tip, more than half as long as main body of scutellum, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite. Corium dark brown or blackish, with large basal and apical areas light yellow, connected by narrow yellow line along costal margin. Membrane light brown, fumose, much lighter than dark portions of corium; veins of membrane conspicuously dark. Legs uniformly dark, comparatively short; fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter rounded in both sexes, delicately striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously pilose. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark brown. Connexivum pale yellow, with transverse black stripe straddling intersegmental suture, the portion occupying hind border of anterior segment smaller than that on anterior portion of posterior segment. Transverse dark markings relatively large, one-half or more than one-half as long as intervening yellow spaces. Light color of connexivum shortly invading urostemites, especially on area of spiracles.
Triatoma longipennis@Triatoma longipennis Usinger Figures 16A; 101, 102 Triatoma longipennis Usinger, 1939, p. 48. Triatoma phyllosoma longipennis: Usinger, 1944, p. 61, pl. 10, fig.c. Triatoma phyllosoma usingeri Mazzotti, 1943a, p. 81 (pro parte); 1944, p. 60, pl. 10, fig.D. Triatoma phyllosoma intermedia Usinger, 1944, p.61. Length of male 29-34 mm, of female 30-37 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5-7.0 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 12.0-13.5 mm, of female 13-15 mm Body unusually wide. Overall color dark brown or black, with yellow or orange spots on neck, rarely on humeri, on corium and on connexivum. Setae abundant, 0.1-0.3 mm long. Head black, weakly granulose, shallowly rugose transversally along center above, with numerous forwardly inclined setae. Head two to two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.4-0.5) and from longer to very slightly shorter than pronotum (l:0.85-1.05). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides subparallel, very slightly rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, shortly and abruptly widened on basal half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, either attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus, or falling slightly short of it. Eyes in side view from barely attaining to slightly surpassing level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis of male 1:1.4-2.1, of female 1:2.1-2.5, viz., eyes of males larger than those of females. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment from attaining to slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2.9:2.0:1.8. Rostral segments stout, cylindrical, with short setae but hairs longer than diameter of segment on third. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.45-1.55:0.5- 0.6. Rostrum dark reddish brown to black. Neck laterally with I+ I orange-red markings. Pronotum uniformly dark brown or black, in some specimens with small orange spot on humeri. Pronotum not granulose, with stiff setae from very short ( 0.1 mm) and adpressed to longer (up to 0.3 mm) and semierect. Structure of pronotum and scutellum as in phyllosoma; scutellum uniformly dark. Mesostemum with numerous long erect hairs; metastemum with similar hairs in large or small number, or only with short decumbent setae. Hemelytra and wings fully developed although appearing narrow as compared to unusually wide abdomen, leaving extreme lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Hemelytra of males attaining middle or apex of urotergite VII, those of female reaching but not extending beyond hind margin of urotergite VI. Corium with short (0.1 mm) adpressed setae , or somewhat longer (0.2 mm) decumbent ones. Corium black, with large triangular basal marking yellow or orange colored, and with smaller subapical spot of similar color, the latter mark in some specimens very small or imperceptible. Clavus entirely dark. Legs as in phyllosoma; fore femora 6.1-6.9 times as long as wide. Venter convex, delicately but shallowly striate transversally; pilosity of venter varying from short and decumbent (in specimens with short setae on metastemum) to long and semierect (in specimens with long hairs on metasternum). Spiracles remote from connexival suture by one to several times their diameter. Connexivum dark brown or black, each segment on posterior half or third with yellow or orange-red irregularly shaped marking adjoining abdominal margin and extending or not to connexival suture. Spots similar on dorsal and ventral surface; ventral spots in some cases extending very shortly to posterolateral comer of respective urostemite.
Triatoma maculata@Triatoma maculata (Erichson) Figures 7A-D;. 8B; lOB; 17; 30C, D; 103-105 La Punaise Mouche Bigarree Stoll, 1788, p. 82, pl. 20, fig.140. Conorrhinus maculatus Erichson in Schomburgk, 1848, p. 614. Conorhinus maculatus: StAI, 1859, p. 108. Triatoma maculata: Neiva, 1914, p. 47. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 881, fig.8. Correa and Espinola, 1964, p. 117, figs. 5, 6, 9, 10. Lucena, 1973, p. 176. Galvao, 1973, p. 367, figs. la, le, 3a, 3c, 4a, 4c, . Sa, Sc, 6a, 6c. Cobben and Wygodzinsky, 1975, p. 15, figs. 155, 156. Eutriatoma maculata: Pinto, 1931, p. 90, fig.35. Conorhinus immaculata Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Length of male 16.5-21.5 mm, of female 17.5-22.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4-5 mm, of female 4.0-5.5 mm, width of abdomen of male and female 5.5-8.0 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with light yellow, orange-yellow or light red marks on head, neck, thorax , corium and connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head comparatively wide, very high posteriorly in lateral view, delicately rugose and granulose, especially at sides. Overall color of head from dark brown to black; very rarely uniformly dark, in most specimens dorsally with light pattern elements of variable extension, from very extensive to scarcely perceptible. Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6- 0.7) and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (l: l.0-1.l). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.35), postocular almost entirely occupied by ocelliferous tubercles with ocelli, its sides rounded but strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened behind middle. Genae tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae rounded or wideangled apically. Eyes very large, in lateral view considerable surpassing level of under, and almost attaining level of upper, surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.9-l.l. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment slightly compressed, beset with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.2-5.0:2.8- 3.2: l. 9-2.4. Rostrum as dark as head capsule, relatively stout. Setae of rostrum short and sparse on first and second and very numerous and elongate on third segment, as long as diameter of same. First rostral segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments l:l. 9-2.2:0. 9-1.0., viz., first segment as long as or slightly longer than third. Neck with pair of lateral light-colored spots. Pronotum not distinctly granulose, its overall color from dark brown to black. Anterior lobe entirely dark, or with discal and lateral tubercles, or only discal tubercles, or also with small area on each side between base of longitudinal carinae and lateral tubercles, orange or yellow. Posterior lobe dark, in most specimens with three pairs of yellow or orangeyellow spots, one pair anterosublateral, one humeral, and one posteromedian. Spots in some specimens confluent to a certain degree, or one or the other pair evanescent, but invariably at least one pair present. Anterior lobe of pronotum with distinct although not large discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections elongate subtriangular, compressed dorsoventrally, anterolaterally directed. Pleura dark, propleura and mesopleura with light spot at hind margin , in some cases spot also on mesopleura. Scutellum entirely dark, coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression; sides of scutellum swollen. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, rounded apically. Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes; their color from light to very dark brown , with veins of membrane and of central portion of corium contrastingly blackish. Clavus dark on basal fourth, contrastingly light colored on remainder. Corium with more or less extensive yellowish or orange longitudinal markings intermixed with dark areas. Membrane fumose, lighter colored than dark portions of corium. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femur 4.5-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in females, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Urosternites from dark brown to black, except small lateral yellow area enclosing spiracles. Connexivum from light yellow to orangeyellow or reddish, with wide transverse black bands on intersegmental sutures, occupying entire width of connexival segments. Light-colored areas occupying from one-half to threefifths of length of respective connexival segment. Male genitalia with endosomal processes of aedeagus lacking apical denticles, their distal portion with irregularly ribbon-shaped sclerotizations .
Triatoma matogrossensis@Triatoma matogrossensis Leite and Barbosa Figures 29E; 106, 107 Triatoma (Eutriatoma) matogrossensis Leite and Barbosa, 1953, p. l, figs. 1-4. Length of male 24.5-28.0 mm, of female 28-30 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.8-6.0 mm, of female 5.5-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7-9 mm, of female 9-10 mm Overall color dark brown or dark reddish brown, with light yellowish brown areas on neck, hind lobe of pronotum, hemelytra, legs, and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse, even on legs. Head dark brown, feebly rugose and granulose-punctate, more than twice as long as wide (1:0.4), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.75). Anteocular region four to five times as long as postocular (1:0.2-0.25), postocular with sides almost straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining or closely approaching level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.7. Antenniferous tubercles relatively slender, situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. First, second, and extreme base of third segment black, remainder contrastingly yellow. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.75.1:3.1-3.6:2.4-2.8. Rostrum yellowish brown, lighter than head capsule, very slender. First rostral segment falling considerably short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending to level of posterior border of eyes. Setae of rostrum short and sparse, only slightly longer at base of upper surface of third segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.5-2.8:l.2-l.4. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum dark brown or reddish brown, with l+ 1 yellowish brown spots on humeri. Anterior lobe sparsely granulose, with discal tubercles from small but distinct to forming inconspicuous elevations. Lateral tubercles not developed. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third of hind lobe, evanescent posteriorly. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections shortly conical, rounded or almost pointed apically. Scutellum with median depression shallow. Apical process of scutellum short, slightly over half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, narrowly rounded or almost pointed apically. Hemelytra approaching or attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite in male, approaching base of seventh urotergite in female. Clavus dark brown at base, pale on apical half. Corium light brownish yellow, with area limited by Sc, R + M and R, a subapical spot, and part of veins, dark brown. Membrane fumose, light grayish brown, darker than light areas of corium; veins of membrane dark brown. Legs light yellowish brown; femora subapically with faint but perceptible dark spot or annulus; apex of tibiae darkened. Legs very long and slender; fore femora eight times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in female. Abdomen wide, lateral portions of urotergites exposed in many specimens. Venter distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, slightly so in male, delicately striate transversally, with distinct although short golden setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival sutures. Urosternites dark brown except small yellowish area enclosing spiracles. Connexivum light yellow or yellowish brown, dorsally with narrow transverse markings straddling intersegmental sutures; these markings very narrowly constricted at middle, widened along connexival suture and in some cases along outer margin posterior to intersegmental sutures. Ventral markings of connexivum faint, reduced in extension.
Triatoma mazzottii@Triatoma mazzottii Usinger Figures 168; 108, 109 Meccus phyllosoma: Champion, 1899, p. 209, pl. 12, fig.25 (nee Burmeister). Triatoma mazz.ottii Usinger, 1941, p. 54. Triatoma phyllosoma mazzottii: Usinger, 1944, p. 59, pl. IO, fig.A. Length of male 33 mm, of female 34 mm Width of pronotum of male and female 7 mm, of abdomen of male 13 mm, of female 14 mm Body unusually wide. Overall color dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on corium and connexivum. Setae numerous, most delicately hairlike , up to 0.5 mm in length. Head black, faintly rugose along center above, not granulose, with long hairs. Head twice as long as wide (1:0.45- 0.50), and as long as or very slightly longer than pronotum. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.3), postocular with sides almost straight, subparallel. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view invariably attaining level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4:1.9:? Rostrum dark brown or black. First rostral segment extending to level of middle of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical, with short setae except hairs longer than diameter of segment on third. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.55-1.70:0.25. Neck laterally with I+ l reddish markings. Thorax as in T phyllosoma. Hemelytra and wings of normal size, but leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites of unusually wide abdomen exposed. Hemelytra of males attaining or slightly extending beyond apex of abdomen, those of female attaining middle of urotergite VII. Corium with long (0.3-0.4 mm) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black, with one basal triangular and one subapical subquadrate spot red or orange-red. Clavus and membrane black. Legs black, elongate. Fore femur 7.5-8.3 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two subapical denticles, in some cases obsolescent. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Venter convex, delicately and shallowly striate transversally, with numerous decumbent long hairs. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to from two to three times their diameter. Connexivum black, posterior third or half of each segment with subquadrate orange red marking. On ventral surface, light-colored area of connexival segments posteriorly with short triangular extension on respective urostemites.
Triatoma melanocephala@Triatoma melanocephala Neiva and Pinto Figures 110-112 Triatoma melanocephala Neiva and Pinto, 1923c, p75. Pinto, 1925, p. 59, fig.39; 1931, p. 71 fig.8. Length of male 25.5-26.5 mm, of female 28 mm; width of pronotum of male 6-7 mm, of female 7 mm; width of abdomen of male 9.5-10.0 mm, of female 10 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, hemelytra and connexivum. Pilosity short, sparse, inconspicuous. Pleura and under surface of thorax and abdomen lightly polished. Head black, rugose, delicately granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0.6) and approximately as long as pronotum. Anteocular region from two and onehalf to three times as wide as postocular (1:0.3- 0.4), postocular with sides straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus conspicuously widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, attaining or very slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.2. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment (remaining not preserved) about three times as long as first, with semierect setae almost as long as diameter of segment. Rostrum as dark as head capsule; first segment extending to level of insertion of antennae, second extending slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical; dorsal surface of second segment, and under surface of apical half of second and entire third segment with dense long hairs, many longer than diameter of respective segments. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.6-1.8:0.7-0.8. Neck dark, with a pair of yellow spots laterally. Pronotum dark brown, with I+ l yellowish brown oval markings on disc of anterior half of posterior lobe, laterad of submedian carinae. Anterior lobe with one pair each of small but distinct discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae relatively short, evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections subconical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, their outer border yellowish. Scutellum uniformly dark. Median depression well developed, narrow. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal; apex slightly upturned, distally rounded. Hemelytra attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite. Color of hemelytra brown; base of clavus, cells of corium, especially that limited by Sc, R + M and R, and base of cells of membrane, darkest; apical two-thirds or threefourths of membranal cells distinctly lighter brown. Most veins of hemelytra contrastingly yellow, most also bordered with yellow; a conspicuous elongate yellow area near base of corium, adjoining claval suture. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, with short setae. Spiracles very close to or adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites uniformly dark, except minute yellow spot enclosing spiracles. Connexival segments with alternate black and light yellow transverse markings. Black markings straddling intersegmental sutures, of irregular shape and longer than yellow markings; the latter closer to posterior than to anterior intersegmental sutures.
Triatoma mexicana@Triatoma mexicana (Herrich-Schaeffer) Figures 6C; 113, 114 Conorhinus mexicanus Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p. 71, pl. 272, figs. 839, 840. Meccus mexicanus: Stal, 1859, p. 105. Triatoma mexicana: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 886. Pinto, 1931, p. 71, fig.23. Mazzotti, 1940b, p. 2, fig.1. Usinger, 1944, p. 52, pl. 9, fig.C. Male. Length 25-26 mm; width of thorax 5.5-6.0 mm, of abdomen 9-10 mm General color black, with yellow markings on neck, corium, and connexivum. Head long and narrow, longer than pronotum (l:0.85), delicately and sparsely granulose, dorsum transversally rugose along middle. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular, the latter with sides faintly rounded, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly tapered apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes prominent, in lateral view extending below level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.0-1.3. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly bel;ind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second (and third) segments with strong declinate setae somewhat longer than diameter of segment, and with very numerous short, delicate, erect hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4:2.7-3.0:2.5. Rostrum slender, with very short and sparse setae, becoming slightly longer on third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:1.70-1.75:0.45-0.50. Neck black, with I+l lateral yellow spots. Pronotum uniformly black. Anterior lobe smooth, ridges not prominent; discal tubercles present, elongate conical. Lateral tubercles distinct but smaller, subconical. Posterior lobe rugose, with lateral portions flaring; sides forming conspicuous angle with sides of fore lobe. Submedian carinae not attaining hind border of pronotum. Humeral angles acute, explanate or not. Sides of posterior lobe slightly reflexed, more strongly so posteriorly. Anterolateral angles prominent, spinelike. Scutellum with central portion depressed, rugose, sclerite carinate laterally. Posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, cylindrical, declinate apically. Hemelytra from approaching to slightly surpassing apex of abdomen. Clavus black on basal half, brownish translucent on apical portion. Corium yellow, including deflexed portion at its base, with large black spot along R extending almost .to lateral margin and to basal portion of M; cu and m-cu crossvein equally black. Base of dark area of Cu connected to sublateral dark spot; apex of corium black. Almost entire lateral border of corium narrowly yellow. Legs black, slender, fore femora 8.5-9.l times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles. Anterior tibiae of male with very small spongy fossula, absent on second pair (female not examined). Abdomen convex, flattened ventrally on segments III-V, flattened portion not limited by a ridge. Venter polished, minutely striate transversally, its setae inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by approximately twice their diameter. General color of abdomen black. Connexivum yellow, with irregularly shaped black markings on anterior third or half of each segment adjacent to intersegmental suture. Female. (Not seen; data taken from illustration in Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848). Similar to male, but with hemelytra abbreviated, not extending beyond base of seventh urotergite. Abdomen strongly widened , with hemelytra leaving lateral portions of urotergites exposed.
Triatoma migrans@Triatoma migrans Breddin Figures 19C; 115, 116 Triatoma migrans Breddin, 1903, p. Ill. Larrousse, 1924a, p. 69, fig.4. Lent, 195ld, p. 426. Triatoma pallidula Miller, 1941, p. 787, fig.lla-c. (new synonymy). Length of male 22.5-24.5 mm (very rarely 20 mm), of female 23.5-25.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 6. 5-7. 0 mm , of female 6.5-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 9-10 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm Overall color from yellowish to reddish brown, with dark brown or black markings on head, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Setae very short and sparse. Head granulose and slightly rugose dorsally, reddish brown with 1 + l longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally. Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6) and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular (l:0.35), postocular with sides rounded, subsemicircular. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened on basal half which is conspicuously elevated in side view. Genae rounded apically in lateral view, considerably surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes distinctly surpassing level of under surface and close to level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.8. Ocelli unusually close to eyes, distance from ocellus to eye shorter than diameter of ocellus. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first very short, not extending beyond basal two-thirds of gena. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.8-4.2:2.4-2.9:1.9-2.6. Rostrum with short, inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment, but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.5:0.4- 0.5. Neck of uniform reddish color. Pronotum reddish brown; dark brown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four dark longitudinal stripes on posterior lobe, I+ I in areas between submedian carinae and outer border and 1 + 1 in space between carinae, adjacent to same. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated areas, with obsolescent discal and without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, only faintly granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles with unusually elongate, fingerlike, distally rounded projections. Scutellum with variable color pattern, in many cases black on anterior half and with apical process light colored, but in some specimens either color more or less widely extended. Posterior process only two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, strongly tapering from wide base to narrow apex. Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium dark at base, at apex and along extemal margin, and with irregularly shaped large central spot dark. Subbasal and subapical yellowish or reddish markings connected or not by a narrow light line along apical portion of R. Membrane as dark as dark portions of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femora 4.0-4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 3-4 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of males with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Abdomen rounded below although only very slightly so along center longitudinally. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or distant from same by diameter of spiracles. Pilosity of venter inapparent. Abdomen of general body color. Connexivum reddish, dorsally and ventrally with subrectangular transverse dark spot at center of each segment.
Triatoma neotomae@Triatoma neotomae Neiva Figures 268; 117, 118 Triatoma neotomae Neiva, 191la, p. 422; 1914a, p53. Pinto, 1931, p. 73, fig.24. Usinger, 1944, p 70, pl. 12, fig.E. Thurman, 1944, p. 116Conorhinus neotomae: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p 494. Length of males 16.5-17.5 mm, of females 17.5-19.5 mm, width of pronotum of males 4.0-4.5, of females 4.2-5.5 mm, of abdomen of males 5.0-5.5, of females 6.0-6.5 mm General color from dark brown to blackish, with orange-yellow markings on neck, humeral angles and connexivum, the corium partially light yellow. Head heavily rugose, slightly granulose, distinctly convex above eyes, not over twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5- 0.6), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.0-1.1). Anteocular region from two to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3- 0.45); postocular with sides rounded, widest at middle, somewhat convergent toward behind. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly and strongly widened toward posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate transverse impression at base of clypeus. Genae conspicuously rugose transversally, tapered apically, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head evenly convex above, but in side view with slight but distinct depression at level of base of clypeus; ventrally not salient behind eyes. Eyes in lateral view remote from level of upper but very close to level of under surface of head. Eyes comparatively small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.5-3.0. Antenniferous tubercles situated closer to eyes than to level of apex of anteocular region. First antennal segment short, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with short decumbent setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3-2.6:2.0-2.4:1.7-2.0. Rostrum with hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segment. First segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second reaching level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1. 7:0.6-0. 7. Neck entirely yellowish. Pronotum subquadrate, with sides carinate, not constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Thorax of general body color, humeral angles of pronotum each with yellowish spot attaining margin of sclerite. Anterior lobe slightly elevated, polished, without discal or lateral tubercles, very sparsely granulose. Posterior lobe rugose; humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles in shape of dorsoventrally flattened flap, broadly rounded and very short. Scutellum with depressed central portion limited by broad carinae; posterior process not more than half as long as main body of scutellum, pointed, declinate at apex. Hemelytra attammg or surpassing middle of eighth urotergite. Corium without perceptible setae, orange or pale yellow with large dark central spot which is longer than wide; dark also base of clavus and apex of corium. Membrane light fumose. Legs of general body color, stout; fore femora 3.6-3.8 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2+2 denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid tibiae of males and only on fore tibiae of females. Venter convex, sharply flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, with inconspicuous setae. Spiracles distant by one to three times their own diameter from connexival suture. Urosternites and urotergites of general body color. Connexival segments orange-yellow, each at middle with large dark, transversal, irregularly shaped marking extending over entire width of connexival segment, dorsally and ventrally.
Triatoma nigromaculata@Triatoma nigromaculata (Stal) Figures 119-121 Conorhinus variegatus: Still, 1859, p. 113 (nee Drury, 1773). Conorhinus nigromaculatus Still, 1872, p. 111. Triatoma nigromaculata: Neiva, 1914a, p. 55. Mazza and Jorg, 1944c, p. 34, figs. 1-10, pl. 2. Eutriatoma nigromaculata: Lent and Pifano, 1939, p. 627, figs. 1, 2. Length of male 21-22 mm, of female 23-24 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.0-5.5 mm, of female 5.5-6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.0-7.5 mm, of female 8-9 mm Overall color yellowish brown or light reddish brown, with numerous black areas and markings dorsally and dark brown areas ventrally. Setae yellow, short and sparse except longer and more numerous on venter. Head dark laterally and ventrally, yellowish brown dorsally on clypeus, dorsal surface of jugae, and entire dorsal surface of head from base of clypeus to hind border of head. Head rugose laterally, approximately twice as long as wide (l:0.45- 0.50) and slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.85-0.95). Anteocular region three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.30), postocular with sides straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, very narrow subapically, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae blunt apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae unusually small, narrowly rounded at apex. Eyes in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head, and in dorsal aspect from slightly narrower to slightly wider than synthlipsis (l:0.9-1.2). Antenniferous tubercles inserted at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous inclined setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-3.9:2.8- 3.1:2.0-2.3. Rostrum black, very slender. First rostral segment unusually short, not extending beyond middle of distance from apex of antenniferous tubercles to level of apex of clypeus. Second segment attaining level of neck. Rostrum with very short, sparse setae, except about as long as diameter of segment on lower surface of apical portion of second and on entire third segment; setae not dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.3-3.9:1.1-1.3. Neck black, without spots. Pronotum light yellowish brown, with conspicuous black markings. Anterior lobe with 1 + I discal but without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections strongly flattened dorsoventrally, large, prominent, cat-ear like. Anterior lobe of pronotum with elevated areas yellowish brown, smooth low areas (central area four-leaf clover shaped and sublateral areas H-shaped) black. Posterior lobe with 2+2 black markings covered with distinct golden hairs, the 1 + 1 submedian spots subrectangular, with transverse inferointernal incision, the I+ 1 sublateral spots oval. Collar and anterolateral projections light colored, collar with 1 + 1 black spots forming continuation of inner arms of Hshaped black area on fore lobe of pronotum. Scutellum light colored, with sides and central depression black, heavily rugose; posterior process reddish, almost as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, rounded apically in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Hemelytra attaining apical margin of urotergite VII, in both sexes. Color of hemelytra light yellowish brown, with dark brown or black pattern elements; small goldencolored setae scattered over corium, most numerous on veins. Corium with small elongate dark markings in lumen of cells; apical half of clavus also dark. Membrane with dark markings in cells and spaces between veins which are light colored; membranal cells with dark areas occupying almost entire lumen of cells, dark spot of inner membranal cell interrupted near base. Overall color of legs black; apex of femora and base of tibiae conspicuously annulate with yellow . Fore and mid femora with three or four stout spinelike denticles, two or three of which arranged continuously on one side, and one median less strongly developed one closer to apex. Hind femora with one smaller denticle. Spongy fossulae not developed in either sex. Abdomen convex. below, delicately striate transversally. Urosternites II-IV of male carinate longitudinally along middle; venter slightly flattened in female. Venter dark brown, with lateral portions of urosternites light colored, light areas forming undulate band. Setae of venter golden colored, longer and more dense than on rest of body. Connexivum light yellowish brown, disc of each segment dorsally with dark anvil-shaped spot at center, reduced in size on first and last visible segments. In some specimens median constriction of black markings complete so as to form two separate dark spots. Connexival segments with ventral spots simple, subrectangular.
Triatoma nitida@Triatoma nitida Usinger Figures 122-124 Triatoma nitida Usinger, 1939, p. 43; 1944, p. 71. Length of male 19.5-21.5 mm, of female 21.0-22.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 5.0-5.5 mm; of abdomen of male 6.5-7.0, of female 7.2 8.0 mm General color dark brown to black, with orange-yellow markings on head, neck, pronotum, acetabula, corium, and connexivum. Setae short, inapparent. Head of general body color but dorsally with orange-yellow markings of varied extension, from covering almost entire surface to only covering clypeus. Head heavily rugose, very slightly granulose, distinctly convex above, not over twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2-1.3). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4); postocular with sides only very slightly rounded, widest anteriorly, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened toward posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate impression at base of clypeus. Genae conspicuously rugose transversally, tapered at apex, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head with distinct depression at level of base of clypeus, in side view. Head not salient behind eyes ventrally. Eyes in lateral aspect remote from level of dorsal but extending very close to level of ventral surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.3-2. 7. Antenniferous tubercles closer to eyes than to apex of head. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with decumbent short setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.6-2.8:2.3:1.8-1.9. Rostrum with hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First segment falling slightly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8:0.6. Neck dark at center, light colored laterally. Pronotum subquadrate, with sides carinate, not distinctly constricted laterally at level of transverse sulcus. General color of thorax dark brown to black. Pronotum with collar and anterolateral angles, entire lateral border including humeral angles, and elevated looplike elements of anterior lobe, orangeyellow or light yellowish brown. Pronotum polished, anterior lobe not distinctly granulose; posterior lobe rugose, with sublateral carinae not very prominent. Humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles in shape of dorsoventrally flattened flap, broadly rounded and very short. Acetabula partially or entirely orange-yellow, contrasting with dark pleural areas. Scutellum of general body color but posterior process orange-yellow. Central depressed area of scutellum heavily rugose, limited by broad carinae; posterior process pointed, not more than half as long as main body of scutellum, declinate at apex. Hemelytra almost reaching apex of abdomen. Corium without perceptible setae, from pale to orange-yellow, with large central dark spot which is longer than wide; dark pigment also at base of clavus and on apex of corium. Membrane dark fumose. Legs stout, fore femora 4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2 + 2 denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid tibiae of males and only on fore tibiae of females. Legs dark brown, in some specimens coxae, trochantera, and base of femora somewhat lighter colored but not strongly contrasting with color or rest of leg. Venter sharply flattened longitudinally along middle, with irregular transverse minute wrinkles. Hairs of venter inapparent. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from latter by not more than their own diameter. Urosternites and urotergites of general body color. Connexivum orange-yellow, each segment at middle with large medially constricted dark spot extending across entire width of connexival segment.
Triatoma obscura@Triatoma obscura (Maldonado and Farr), new combination Figures 125, 126 Nesotriatoma obscura Maldonado and Farr, 1962, p. 190, figs, 10-18. Length of female examined, 25 mm, width of pronotum 5.5 mm, of abdomen 8.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with small yellowish brown spots on neck, anterolateral projections, discal and lateral tubercles of fore lobe of pronotum, apex of scutellum and on connexivum. Setae short but distinct, more slender than those of fiavida. Head conspicuously granulose dorsally, of general body color, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5) and as long as pronotum (1:1). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0.4); postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus only faintly widened behind middle. Genae slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, their apex narrowly tapered, almost pointed. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment blackish, second dark reddish brown. First segment attaining level of apex of clypeus, second segment with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of first and second antennal segments 1:2. 7. Rostrum slender, with inconspicuous short setae, but scattered long setae on apical segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment reaching to neck; third segment shorter than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3:0.6. Neck dark brown, with I+ 1 yellowish lateral spots. Pronotum of general color. Anterior lobe granulose, with 1 + l lateral small yellowish tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, wrinkled, not granulose. Submedian carinae poorly developed, evanescent on posterior half of posterior lobe. Humeral angles yellowish, angular, narrowly explanate, the explanate portion reflected in specimen examined. Lateral carinae of pronotum partly yellow. Anterolateral angles yellowish, subtriangular, compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum dark, apex of posterior process yellow. Main body of scutellum heavily and irregularly rugose, central depression barely developed. Scutellum anteriorly with l + 1 conspicuous submedian forwardly inclined pointed projections. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, horizontal, swollen apically, rounded at tip. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite, their overall color blackish, with almost imperceptible light-colored areas. Legs with femora dark brown, tibiae slightly lighter reddish brown. Legs slender, fore femora about eight times as long as wide. Femora without denticles, only somewhat prominent at usual area of insertion of denticles. Spongy fossulae absent. Venter flattened longitudinally along middle; delicately striate transversally. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by their own diameter. Pilosity of venter short but distinct. Venter dark reddish brown, spiracles enclosed in small yellowish area. Connexivum dark brown, segments with posterior fourth occupied by narrow transverse yellowish band, wider at external than at internal border of segment. Female genitalia strongly projecting back- wards.
Triatoma oliveirai@Triatoma oliveirai (Neiva, Pinto and Lent) Figures 127-129 Eutriatoma oliveirai Neiva, Pinto and Lent, 1939, p. 608, figs. I, 2. Triatoma (Eutriatoma) o\iveirai: Lima, 1940, p. 200. Female (male unknown). Length 25-27 mm; width of pronotum 5 mm, of abdomen 10 mm Overall color black, with orange or yellow markings on neck, in some cases on pronotum, and on connexivum; hemelytra largely yellow. Pilosity short and sparse; integument polished. Head black, rugose, weakly granulose, approximately twice as long as wide (l:0.45) and much longer than pronotum (l:0.75-0.80). Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular (1:0.3); postocular with sides straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded apically, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae narrowly rounded apically. Eyes small, in lateral view close to but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2. Ocelli small, their distance from eyes equal to twice their length. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment approaching level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.0-4.2:2.7-3.0:2.2. Rostrum dark reddish brown; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Rostrum stout; first and second segments with short hairs, apex of second dorsally and entire third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment, most numerous at upper surface near base of third segment. Ratio of rostral segments I: I. 95- 2. l: l.0-1.2. Neck black, with I+ 1 lateral spots yellow. Pronotum black, with I+ l large humeral spots yellowish. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, with I+ I low discal and I+ I more conspicuous lateral tubercles; these tubercles black or orange yellow. Posterior lobe heavily rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections short, subconical, rounded apically. Scutellum black, heavily rugose, with deep but narrow median depression; lateral portions of scutellum strongly elevated. Posterior process of scutellum unusually short, only about half as long as main body of scutellum, oblique, subconical, its apex rounded. Hemelytra much shorter than abdomen, attaining or slightly surpassing limit between sixth and seventh urotergites. Overall color of hemelytra pale yellow, on corium as well as on membrane, without dark marks, only veins conspicuously darkened. Clavus of general color, except black at base and along outer margin. Legs uniformly black, slender. Fore femora seven times as long as wide. Femora of all pairs of legs with pair of small denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae absent (male not known). Abdomen very wide, lateral portions of urotergites widely exposed. Venter convex, distinctly but not sharply flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, with sparse, short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Apex of abdomen as shown in figure 1290; sides of eighth urotergite straight or slightly emarginated. Urosternites black; connexivum black, disc of each segment with large yellow mark extending from outer margin to connexival suture and ventrally enclosing spiracles; intersegmental sutures enclosed in narrow transverse black band.
Triatoma pallidipennis@Triatoma pallidipennis (Stal) Figures 130, 131 Meccus pallidipennis Stdl, 1872, p. 110. Champion, 1899, p. 210, pl. 12, figs, 24, 24a. Triatoma pallidipennis: Pinto, 1927, p. 108, figs. 8, 11. Triatoma phyllosoma pallidipennis: Usinger, 1944, p. 59, pl. 10, fig.E. Usinger, Wygodzinsky and Ryckman, 1966, p. 310, fig.IE. Triatoma phyllosoma usingeri Mazzotti, 1943a, p. 81, fig.2. Usinger, 1944, p. 60, pl. 10, fig.D, (new synonymy). Length of male 31-34 mm, of female 32-35 mm Width of pronotum of male 6-7 mm, of female 6.0-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 12-13 mm, of female 13-16 mm Body very wide , with relatively narrow wings. Overall color from very dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on neck and connexivum, and with corium almost entirely yellowish white. Setae of dorsal surface numerous, most short, not more than 0.3 mm long . Head black, faintly rugose above along center, not granulose, and with numerous stiff black setae. Head slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45) and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.90-0.95). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35); postocular with side feebly rounded, subparallel. Clypeus narrow, somewhat widened on posterior half. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, pointed in some specimens. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral view approaching or attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles short, situated slightly before middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff decumbent hairs about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2. 7: I. 9-2.0:1.4-1. 7. Rostrum dark reddish brown to in most cases black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second extending to level of hind border of head. Rostral segments subcylindrical, with short sparse setae, only third segment with not very dense setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.40-1. 75:0.40-0.65 Neck laterally with I+ I orange-red spots. Pronotum black, strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with numerous short, strongly decumbent or adpressed setae not longer than 0.3 mm Pronotum and scutellum otherwise as in phyllosoma . Meso and metastemum with long suberect hairs. Hemelytra and wings leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Hemelytra of males extending to middle of urotergite VII, of females not quite attaining posterior margin of urotergite VI. Corium with numerous short (0.1-0.2 mm) decumbent or adpressed setae , most of its surface yellowish white, faintly tinged with orange at base, dark at extreme apex. Basal half of clavus dark, apical half yellowish white. Membrane from dark brown to sooty black, yellowish white on narrow area adjacent to corium. Legs as in phyllosoma; fore femora 6.3-7.5 times as long as wide. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, and with numerous long semierect hairs. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to several times their diameter. Connexivum unusually wide, black; connexival plates posteriorly with orange-red markings of varied size , in most cases subtriangular and longest along outer connexival margin.
Triatoma patagonica@Triatoma patagonica Del Ponte Figures 132, 133 Triatoma patagonica Del Ponte, 1929, p. 6, fig.5; 1930, p. 889, pl. 51, figs. 1-3. Wygodzinsky and Abalos, 1950, p. 60, figs. 2, 6E, I, M; 7A-E; 8C; II. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 95, figs. 41, 63, 175, 190-193. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 54, pl. 2, fig.5. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 40, fig.23Eutriatoma (Triatoma) patagonica: Mazza, 1937, p 5, figs. 1-20. Length .of male 17.0-18,5 mm, of female 18-21 mm; width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 5-6, of female 6. 5-8. 0 mm Overall color blackish brown or black, with yellow or rarely reddish markings on neck, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument sparsely setose, appearing glabrous. Head black, delicate rugose dorsally, sparsely granulose, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4), postocular with sides faintly convex, converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, distinctly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l: 1.45-1. 75. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending close to level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment flattened, beset with numerous setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3- 4.0:2.3-3.0:1.8-2.l. Rostrum as dark as head capsule or more or less reddish. Setae of rostrum very short, except at apex of second and on third segment where setae are more numerous and about as long as diameter of segment, decreasing in length toward apex of third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of jugae, second extending to level of posterior margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.8-2.l:1.0-1.2. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum polished, black, in some specimens outer margin of anterolateral processes narrowly yellow. Anterior lobe with central portion conspicuously elevated, with l + l obsolescent discal tubercles. Lateral tubercles obsolescent. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle or posterior third of hind lobe. Humeri slightly elevated, humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, their apex rounded or blunt. Scutellum entirely dark, slightly convex, heavily rugose, its central depression well developed. Posterior process of scutellum about three-fifths as long as main body of sclerite, horizontal, subcylindrical or slightly compressed laterally, rounded at apex. Hemelytra approaching or attaining apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium brownish black, with large yellow subtriangular mark basally, not extending onto clavus. In some specimens, a yellow spot also on apex of corium, connected or not to basal spot by narrow light-colored stripe along costal margin of hemelytron. Membrane almost as dark as or slightly lighter than dark portion of corium, with veins slightly darker than membrane. Legs dark, femora with very narrow complete or incomplete apical annulus yellow . Legs slender, fore femora from six to six and one-half times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small denticles subapically, hind femora slightly prominent subapically below. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Venter convex, feebly flattened at center in female, shallowly striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjacent or close to connexival suture, distant from latter by not more than their own diameter. Venter black. Connexivum yellow, rarely reddish, light-colored area briefly extending to urotergites and urosternites, in latter including spiracles. Black transverse mark straddling intersegmental sutures, this dark area wide or more or less narrowed or constricted medially, in rare ca .. es divided into two spots.
Triatoma peninsularis@Triatoma peninsularis Usinger Figures 288; 134-136 Triatoma peninsularis Usinger, 1940, p. 73, Ryckman, 1962, p. 116, pl. 2, fig.N. Triatoma protracta peninsularis: Usinger, 1944, p. 74. Length of male 10.5-11.0 mm, of female 11-12 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 2.5-3.0 mm, width of abdomen of male and female 3.5-4.0 mm Overall color ,dark brown or black, only neck and membrane lighter colored. Body and appendages with short, inconspicuous setae. Head granulose, convex above, as long as pronotum and twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.45-0.50). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.45-0.50), postocular with sides prominently rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, strongly widened posteriorly; arcuate impression at base of clypeus absent. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head evenly convex above, in lateral view without perceptible depression at level of base of clypeus; head ventrally not salient behind eyes. Eyes Yery small, in lateral view not attaining level of upper and lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.35-1.50. Antenniferous tubercles situated at level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, barely exceeding middle of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with short adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3-2.5:2.3-2.5:2.0-2.3. Rostrum with long hairs, not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments I: 1.2-1.3:0.6. Neck dark, lighter laterally and below. Pronotum of general body color, smooth, trapezoidal, carinate laterally, only very slightly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe only faintly convex, without discal and lateral tubercles, slightly granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, submedian carinae not attammg hind border. Humeri rounded, slightly elevated. Anterolateral angles very little pronounced, rounded. Scutellum with central portion depressed, limited by distinct carinae. Apical process rugose, short, about half as long as main body of scutellum, subconical, its apex deflected. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium of general body color, slightly lighter on area adjacent to clavus, and on apical half of the latter; membrane smoky brown. Legs unicolorous, short and stout; fore femur 3.4-3.8 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two pairs of denticles subapically. Tibiae without spongy fossulae, in either sex. Venter convex or very slightly flattened. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of irregular, shallow, transversal wrinkles. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by several times their diameter . Connexivum twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. Entire abdomen of general color, intersegmental connexival sutures almost imperceptibly lighter.
Triatoma petrochii@Triatoma petrochii Pinto and Barreto Figures 137-139 Triatoma petrochii Pinto and Barreto, 1925, p. 769. Sherlock and Guitton, 1967, p. 625, figs. 1-8. Lucena, 1970, p. 75. Espinola, 1971, p. 278, figs. 5-7. Eutriatoma petrochii: Pinto, 1931, p. 95. figs. 40-42. Length of male 17. 0-21. 5 mm , of female 18-23 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 3.5-5.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 6-8 mm, of female 6-9 mm Overall color dark brown, with yellowish markings on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument appearing glabrous, only with very sparse, short, inapparent setae. Head uniformly dark, slightly rugose and granulose, somewhat over twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45) and unusually elongate as compared to pronotum (1:0.70-0.75). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides from very faintly rounded to almost straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus widened slightly behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering or pointed apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.0( o), 1:2.5 ( c;>). Antenniferous tubercles situated at or slightly before middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment appearing unusually short, extending only slightly beyond half the distance from its base to apex of head, viz., falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment sybcylindrical, with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3 .3-4.2:2.3-2.8:2.1-2.5. Rostrum slender, practically glabrous, except for group of long hairs at apex of third segment. First segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second approaching level of hind margin of eyes. Second segment slightly and third segment strongly flattened dorsoventrally, appearing very thin in lateral view. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.8:1.1-1.2. Neck dark, with a pair of light colored spots laterally. Pronotum very sparsely granulose, dark brown, yellow on collar, on discal callosities and in some cases on lateral margins of anterior lobe, on entire submedian carinae and on humeral area. Anterior lobe with discal tubercles reduced to suboval transverse callosities; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeri narrowly rounded, almost angular. Scutellum rugose, dark brown, with shallow central depression. Posterior process almost entirely yellow, about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal, rounded apically. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite. Corium dark brown, with irregularly shaped large light yellow markings basally and subapically; entire costal margin narrowly yellow. Membrane yellowish white, lighter than yellow areas of c rium. Veins of membrane narrowly dark brown; cells of membrane with conspicuous dark spot of variable extension, centered on vein separating cells. Legs uniformly dark, femora in some specimens slightly lighter at middle. Legs slender; fore femora 6-7 times as long as wide. Femora either only slightly salient below subapically, or with one or two inconspicuous denticles. Spongy fossulae absent m both sexes. Abdomen slightly flattened below in male and more distinctly so in female. Venter delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Venter dark brown, but spiracles enclosed in small yellow area confluent with corresponding yellow spots of connexivum. Connexivum dark brown, segments on disc with large yellowish spot occupying two-thirds of surface of each segment, approaching but not adjoining posterior and remote from anterior intersegmental suture. Both dark and light areas occupying entire width of connexival segments, light areas shortly extending on respective urosternite.
Triatoma phyllosoma@Triatoma phyllosoma (Burmeister) Figures 140-142 Conorhinus phyllosoma Burmeister, 1835, p. 246 Meccus phyllosoma: StAI, 1859, p. 105 Meccus phyllosomus: StAl, 1872, p. BO. Banks, 1910, p. 18. Van Duzee, 1917, p. 247 Triatoma phyllosoma: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 890Mazzoni, 1937, p. 161, figs. I, 2. Usinger, 1944, p. 58, pl. 10, fig.B. Usinger, Wygodzinsky and Ryckman, 1966, p. 310, fig.18. Length of male 26.5-38.0 mm, of female 29.0-39.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.5-7.3 mm; width of abdomen of male 12.0-14.5 mm, of female 11.5-18.5 mm Body unusually wide, with short and narrow wings. Overall color from dark brown to black, with red or orange-red markings on corium and connexivum. Setae numerous, most delicately hairlike , up to 0.5 mm in length. Head black, faintly transversally rugose along center above, not granulose, with numerous stiff black setae. Head about twice as long as wide (1:0.4-0.55) and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.90- 0.95). Anteocular region from two and one-half to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3-0.4); postocular with sides subparallel, very slightly rounded. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly rounded distally, attaining or very rarely surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in most cases not attaining, very rarely slightly surpassing level of under surface and invariably distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.1 in male, 1: 1. 9-2 .4 in female, viz. , eyes of female generally smaller than those of male. Antenniferous tubercles short, situated slightly behind middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending slightly but distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2.9:1.8-2.2:1.5-2.0. Rostrum with first segment dark brown or black, second and third segments dark or light reddish brown. First rostral segment attaining level of middle of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of neck. Rostral segments stout, sybcylindrical, with short, sparse setae, only third segment with not very dense hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.5-1.8:0.5-0.6. Neck laterally with I+ I reddish spots. Pronotum black, strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with numerous long erect hairs pointing in several directions. Anterior lobe with elevated areas pilose, remaining surface smooth, dull. Discal tubercles large, pilose. Lateral tubercles well developed although somewhat smaller than discal ones. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose, transversely between carinae, more irregularly so on lateral portions. Submedian carinae not extending beyond basal two-thirds of length of posterior lobe. Humeri distinctly elevated; humeral angles rounded, narrowly explanate. Anterolateral projections large, elongate conical. Scutellum with median depression distinct but shallow and narrow; posterior process two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal or slightly elevated obliquely, rounded distally and with extreme apex declinate in some cases. Mesosternum and metasternum with long erect hairs. Hemelytra and wings short and narrow, leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Hemelytra extending in most males and some females only to apex of urotergite V and in most males and some females to urotergite VI but not beyond. Corium with numerous long (0.3-0.4 mm) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black, with one basal triangular and one subapical subquadrate spot red or orange-red. Clavus black. Membrane sooty or velvety black. Legs black, elongate; fore femora 6.0-7.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two subapical denticles, in some individuals barely perceptible. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, more irregularly so on lateral portions, and with numerous semierect hairs. Setae of visible portion of dorsal surface of abdomen short. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to several times their diameter . Connexivum unusually wide , black, connexival plates posteriorly with red or orange-red markings extending over entire width of segment, their shape varying from transverse band-shaped to subtriangular, with apex of triangle directed cephalad. Male genitalia with apex of lateral endosoma process heavily denticulate .
Triatoma picturata@Triatoma picturata U singer Figures 143, 144 Triatoma sp. Mazzotti, 1939a, p. 197, fig.I Triatoma picturata Usinger, 1939, p. 47, Mazzotti, 1940a, p. 98, pl. 2, fig.2. Islas, 1941, p. 311, pis. 1-4 Triatoma phyllosoma picturata: Usinger, 1944, p60, pl. 10, fig.F. Length of male 30.5-32.0 mm, of female 32-33 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5-7.0 mm, of female 7.0-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 12-14 mm, of female 12-15 mm Body unusually wide . Overall color dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on neck, hind lobe of pronotum, propleura, occasionally on apex of scutellum, and extensively on corium. Setae numerous, adpressed, short (0.1-0.2 mm on corium, 0.2- 0.3 mm on pronotum.) Head black, faintly rugose dorsally along center, not granulose, with stiff decumbent setae. Head about twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.5), and from slightly longer than to as long as pronotum (1:0.85-1.0). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides very slightly convex, almost straight, subparallel. Clypeus narrow, distinctly but shortly widened subbasally. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, in some cases pointed, attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.5-2.15. Antenniferous tubercles short, situated slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment attaining or shortly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3-2.5:2.0-2.15:1.9. Rostrum as dark as head capsule, its segments narrowly subcylindrical. First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of hind border of head. Rostral segments with very short setae, only third segment with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.5-1.7:0.5-0.6. Neck dark, laterally with pair of orange red spots. Pronotum moderately constricted at level of transverse sulcus, not granulose, with adpressed setae not longer than 0.3 mm Overall color of pronotum black, with orangered areas of varied extension, from almost entirely occupying hind lobe to restricted to portion laterad of submedian carinae. Discal tubercles prominent, from blunt to pointed. Lateral tubercles well developed although smaller than discal ones. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose transversally. Submedian carinae extending over anterior two third of posterior lobe. Humeri slightly elevated, rounded. Anterolateral projections large, elongate conical. Scutellum with median depression shallow but distinct, narrow; posterior process two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal or slightly elevated, rounded distally. Scutellum dark, in some specimens distal half of posterior process reddish orange. Pleura and stema dark, but hind portion of propleura orange colored. Meso and Metastemum with long semierect hairs. Hemelytra fully developed, but leaving in most specimens entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed, due to the unusually wide abdomen. Hemelytra of male attaining or closely approaching hind border of urotergite VII, those of female not extending beyond basal third of urotergite VII. Corium with decumbent or adpressed very short setae (0.1-0.2 mm), its overall color dark brown to black, with one large subtriangular basal and one irregularly shaped subapical mark orange-red. Clavus uniformly dark brown. Membrane black. Legs as in phyllosoma. Fore femur 5.6-6. 7 times as long as wide. Venter convex, delicately and shallowly striate transversally, more irregularly so on lateral portions, and with numerous long semierect hairs. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by several times their diameter . Connexivum yellowish or reddish orange, in most specimens examined dorsally with subrectangular black spot on anterolateral portion of each connexival segment, adjoining outer but distant from inner connexival margin . In other specimens, dorsal black connexival spot connected to inner connexival margin by less intense dark area , and in others black spot and adjoining dark area extending posteriorly so as to occupy more than one-half of length of respective connexival spot invariably occupying entire width of connexival plate . Posterolateral angles of urosternites and occasionally urotergites invaded by yellowish orange area adjoining orange portions of connexival segments.
Triatoma platensis@Triatoma platensis Neiva Figures 145, 146 Triatoma platensis Neiva, 1913b, p. 197. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 891, pl. 47, fig.2. Pinto, 1931, p. 78, fig.20. Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 174. Romana and Abalos, 1947, p. 83, figs. 1-5 (part), unnumbered plate. Wygodzinsky, 1949, p. 338. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 62, figs. 37, 42, 48, 59, 82-101. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 75, fig.33. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 42. Triatoma rosenbuschi Mazza 1936a, p. 6, figs. 1-5; 1936c, p. I, figs. 2-7. Mazza and Jorg, 1944d, p. 47, figs. 1-3. Length of male 22-24 mm, of female 22.5-26.0 mm Width of pronotum of male and female 6-7 mm, of abdomen of male 7.5-8.5 mm, of female 8-9 mm Robust, heavily sclerotized species. Overall color dark brown, matte, with yellowish markings on neck and connexivum. Pilosity golden colored, adpressed, elongate scalelike, very dense on most body areas. Head dark reddish brown, very densely pilose dorsally and laterally, setae forwardly directed; surface sparsely granulose. Head comparatively slender in lateral and dorsal view, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.60-0.65), and slightly shorter than pronotum (l:l.l-1.2). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3), postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus strongly widened behind middle. Genae pointed, heavily sclerotized distally, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Apex of jugae angular, also heavily sclerotized. Head dorsally with transverse impression at base of clypeus and of jugae. Eyes in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlip- i sis l:l.5-2.0. Ocelli inserted on conspicuous l protuberances. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second and third antennal segments compressed; second with adpressed setae, much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.4:2.6-2.8:1.5-1. 7. Rostrum as dark as head. Setae of rostrum very short on first and part of under surface of second segment; distal portion of under surface and entire upper surface of second as well as entire third segment dorsally, laterally, and ventrally with very dense setae much longer than diameter of segment, longest at base of third segment, progressively decreasing in length towards apex of rostrum. First segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not quite reaching level of apex of antenniferous tubercles. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-2.0:0.9-1.1. Neck dark brown, with 1 + 1 lateral yellow spots. Pronotum brown, matte. Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal and 1 + 1 lateral tubercles densely covered with adpressed setae as are other elevated areas of fore lobe. Posterior lobe irregularly wrinkled and densely beset with backwardly directed adpressed setae. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, humeral area elevated. Anterolateral projections short, conical, laterally directed. Scutellum heavily rugose; central depression glabrous or with scattered setae, remainder densely setose. Base of scutellum with a pair of submedian, prominent projections, overlapping declivous portion of posterior margin of pronotum. Posterior process of scutellum about three-fifths as long as main body of sclerite, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, narrow at apex, rounded distally. Hemelytra closely approaching, attaining or slightly surpassing apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus and corium distinctly setose. Hemelytra of general body color. Corium tinged with light yellow, sparsely spotted with dark. Membrane irregularly mottled with dark, dark pigment elements coalescing into large dark spot straddling vein separating membranal cells. Legs uniformly dark reddish brown, stout; fore femora from four to five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in female. Setae of legs numerous, short, those of tibiae not longer than half the diameter of article . Venter prominently convex, feebly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, coarsely striate transversally. Setae numerous, backwardly directed. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture . Color of venter and connexivum dark brown. Connexival segments dorsally and ventrally each with medially constricted transverse yellow mark on posterior half of segment, distant from intersegmental suture. Development of spots varied, in some cases spots divided into two.
Triatoma protracta@Triatoma protracta (Uhler) Figures 22A; 14 7, 148 Conorhinus protractus Uhler, 1894, p. 284 Triatoma protracta: Neiva, 1914a, p. 58. Readio, 1927, p. 118. Pinto, 1931, p. 79, figs. 25-28 Usinger, 1944, pl. l, figs. D, E.; pl. 6; pl. 12, fig.B Triatoma protracta protracta: Ryckman, 1962, p. 110, pl. l, figs. A. B; pl. 2, fig.W Triatoma protracta woodi Usinger, 1939, p. 42; 1944, p. 73, pl. l, fig.F; pL 12, fig.A. Ryckman, 1962, p. 113, pl. l, figs. C, E, F; pl. 2, figs. K, 0Triatoma protracta navajoensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 114, pl. l, fig.D Triatoma protracta zacatecensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 115, pl. l, fig.H, pl. 2, figs. I, J Triatoma protracta nahuatlae Ryckman, 1962, p.115, pl. 2, fig.M. Length of male 13.0-19.5, of female 15-23 mm; width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0, of female 3.5-5.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 5.0-5.5, of female 5.0-8.5 mm Color either from piceous to black, with intersegmental connexival sutures light, and membrane in . some cases light gray, or from light to dark brown, with connexival sutures as above or with entire connexivum from slightly to distinctly lighter than rest of abdomen. Head granulose and slightly rugose, distinctly convex above, about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.45- 0.55), and about as long as pronotum. Anteocular region slightly less than three times as long as postocular (1:0.34-0.4), postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, strongly widened on posterior half. Head with distinct arcuate transverse impression at base of clypeus. Genae narrowly tapered apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head evenly convex above, but in side view with slight although distinct depression at level of base of clypeus. Head not salient ventrally behind eyes. Eyes in lateral view attaining levels of upper or lower surface of head. Eyes comparatively small, ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:3 .25-3 .60. Antenniferous tubercles situated at level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, barely exceeding middle of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with short, adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2. 70-2.95:2.20-2.55:1. 95- 2.30. Rostrum with short hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second segment, uniformly long on third segment, but not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third. First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.15-1.30:0.50. Neck dark, light colored anterolaterally. Pronotum from light brown to black, smooth, carinate laterally, trapezoidal, only very slightly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe only slightly elevated, without discal or lateral tubercles, slightly granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, submedian carinae almost attaining hind margin; humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles very short, inconspicuous, rounded apically. Scutellum with central portion depressed, limited by distinct carinae. Apical process about half as long as main body of scutellum, subconical, faintly depressed dorsoventrally, its pointed apex deflected. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, their color from brownish in light colored to almost black in dark specimens, in some cases membrane lighter than corium, and the latter with faint light-colored subapical spot; rarely center of corium darker than rest of hemelytra. Legs short and stout; fore femora from four to five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with two pairs of denticles. Tibiae of both sexes without spongy fossulae. Venter rounded or slightly flattened, irregularly wrinkled transversally. Hairs of venter inconspicuous. Spiracles close to connexival suture . General color of abdomen as on rest of body, from light reddish brown to black; intersegmental sutures of dark specimens in most cases narrowly yellow . Brownish forms frequently with connexivum contrastingly very light brown or yellow , in other specimens concolorous with urostemites.
Triatoma pseudomaculata@Triatoma pseudomaculata Correa and Espinola Figures 149, 150 Triatoma pseudomaculata Correa and Espinola, 1964, p. 116, figs. 3, 4, 7, 8, 11-14. Lucena, 1973, p. 176 (pro parte). Galviio, 1973, p. 371, fip.Th,W,Th,To,......M. Length of male 17 -19 mm , of female 19-20 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.8 mm, of female 4.5-5.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 5.5-7.0 mm, of female 6.5-7.5 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with yellow or orange-red marks on neck, thorax, corium, and connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head uniformly dark brown or black, less high in lateral view than in maculata, delicately granulose, especially at sides. Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6-0.7), and as long as pronotum (l:1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.30-0.35), postocular with sides rounded but strongly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened behind middle. Genae tapering or pointed apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae wide-angled apically. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of under and almost attaining level of upper surface of eyes. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.l-1.4. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus, second slightly compressed, with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:4.0-4.8:2.4-3.6:1.8-2.6. Rostrum dark as head capsule, relatively slender (as compared to T maculata). Setae of rostrum short and sparse on first and second segments but very numerous and longer on third, although not quite as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.4-3.l:l.O-l.l, viz., first segment as long as or slightly shorter than third. Neck with I+ 1 lateral yellow or orange spots. Pronotum not distinctly granulose, its overall color from dark brown to black, with variable yellowish or orange-red pattern elements. Discal and lateral tubercles of fore lobe yellowish. Posterior lobe dark, with three pairs of yellow or reddish spots, one pair anterosublateral, one humeral and one posteromedian, the latter in many cases reduced in size, or obsolescent. Anterosublateral and humeral spots either separated or fused, in the latter case forming a single lateral spot on each side. Anterolateral projections light colored. Anterior lobe of pronotum with distinct discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely wrinkled. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, humeral area distinctly elevated. Anterolateral projections (149, 150C) prominently conical, in some cases elongate subtriangular as in maculata, in most specimens seen somewhat shorter, subconical. Pleura dark, in most individuals propleura with light spot at posterior margin, in some specimens absent. Mid and hind acetabula spotted with light color in occasional specimens. Scutellum entirely dark, coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression; sides of scutellum swollen. Posterior process subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal but apex slightly upturned, obliquely truncate in lateral view. Hemelytra almost attaining or in some males slightly surpassing apex of seventh urotergite. Overall color of hemelytra dark brown or black. Clavus dark at base, yellowish on apical two-thirds. Corium with subbasal and subapical spots yellow or reddish. Membrane either black and as dark as dark portions of corium, or fumose, brown, distinctly lighter than dark portion of corium, and with veins conspicuously dark. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femur 5.0-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown, in some specimens irregularly clouded with yellowish brown; small lateral area enclosing spiracles yellow. Connexivum light yellow or reddish orange, with wide transversal black bands across entire width of connexival segment, on intersegmental sutures. Light-colored areas of connexivum about as large as dark ones. Male genitalia with endosomal processes denticulate apically.
Triatoma pugasi@Triatoma pugasi Lent Figures 151-153 Triatoma pugasi Lent, 1953b, p. 316, figs. 2-4. Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Length of male 24.0-24.5 mm, of female 24.0 mm, width of pronotum of male 6.5 mm, of female 6.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 10.0 mm, of female 9.5 mm Overall color dorsally light orange-brown or yellowish brown, with head, antennae, membrane, legs, and venter darker. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Setae very short and sparse. Head dorsally faintly rugose and distinctly granulose; dark reddish brown with 1 + 1 submedian black lines on dorsum. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1). Anteocular region about two and onehalf times as long as postocular (1:0.40-0.45); postocular with sides slightly convex, somewhat converging toward behind. Clypeus widened posteriorly, not strongly elevated. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view distinctly surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5 (o), 1:2.1 (<.?). Ocelli small, their diameter equal to or smaller than their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first very small, falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:4.4-4.8:2.7:2.0. Rostrum with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of middle of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.30:0.35. Pronotum uniformly orangebrown. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated portions, with 1+ I obsolescent discal but without lateral tubercles. Hind lobe coarsely rugose, slightly granulose. Submedian carinae very short, evanescent at middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly explanate and elevated. Anterolateral angles with short subtriangular forward directed projections. Scutellum orange-brown, its central depressed portion rugose, limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process of scutellum less than half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, narrowly subconical. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male, reaching to posterior margin of seventh urotergite in female. Corium light yellowish brown, extensively brown fumose on basal half and at extreme apex. Membrane darker than dark portions of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2+2 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with small spongy fossulae, the latter present in females only on fore tibiae. Venter slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in male and more strongly so in female, with flattened portion not distinctly separated from lateral convex area. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of meandering and labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Connexival segments with conspicuous oblique rugosities. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark reddish brown. Connexivum light brown, not spotted.
Triatoma recurva@Triatoma recurva (Stil) Figures 154, 155 Conorhinus recurvus StAI, 1868, p. 124. Triatoma recurva: Neiva, 1914a, p. 59. Lent, 195lc, p. 156, figs. 1-3. Triatoma longipes Barber, 1937b, p. 86. Usinger, 1944, p. 57, pl. l, fig.I; pl. 5, pl. 9, fig.H. Triatoma longipes nigricollis Usinger, 1944, p. 57. Triatoma recurva nigricollis: Ryckman and Ryckman, 1967b, p. 383. Length of males 25.5-30.0 mm, of females 29-33 mm; width of pronotum of males 5.5-7.0 mm, of females 6.0-7.5 mm; width of abdomen of males 8.5-10.5 mm, of females 11.0-13.5 mm General color from piceous to black, in some cases hind lobe of pronotum slightly lighter colored; connexivum orange-yellow along outer margin. Setae short and sparse, inconspicuous. Head narrow, rugose transversally along middle on dorsum, faintly granulose, slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45), and longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.35), postocular with sides straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus very narrow, gradually widened behind its middle. Genae pointed apically, falling short of apex of clypeus. In side view, eyes approaching but not attaining level of upper surface but extending below level of lower surface of head. In dorsal view, ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis l: 1.4-1. 7. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region, without apical spiniferous process. First antennal segment falling short of apex of clypeus. Second segment only with decumbent setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3-3.5:2.4-2.7:2.1-2.3. Rostrum slender, first and second segments with very short, sparse setae, third with a few long hairs. First segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1.8:0.5. Neck light colored laterally. Pronotum with sides conspicuously constricted at level of transversal sulcus. Anterior lobe with halves distinctly convex, delicately granulose, with 1 + 1 discal tubercles and 1 + 1 less well developed but still perceptible lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose, submedian carinae not attaining posterior margin of pronotum. Humeri narrowly rounded. Anterolateral angles shortly conical, rounded apically. Scutellum heavily rugose, with central portion only slightly depressed; apical process elongate cylindrical, almost as long as disc of sclerite, horizontal, its apex slightly tapering, from horizontal to slightly downward bent. Hemelytra uniformly dark, those of male attaining or slightly surpassing apex of abdomen, those of female only attaining base or at most middle of urotergite VIII. Hemelytra narrow compared to wide abdomen, in females leaving lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Legs slender and elongate, only with short sparse setae. Fore femora 7.5-10.0 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 larger and occasionally 1 + 1 smaller subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of males with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Abdomen convex below. Venter delicately striate transversally; setae inconspicuous. Spiracles very close to connexival suture, their distance from suture equal to once or twice their diameter. Connexivum wide, in many specimens strongly reflexed. Connexivum dark, with orange-yellow outer margin dorsally and ventrally, this margin in many specimens wider toward posterior portion of each segment; light color in some cases slightly extended mesad along intersegmental connexival sutures.
Triatoma rubida@Triatoma rubida (Uhler) Figures 156-158 Conorhinus rubidus Uhler, 1894, p. 285. Triatoma rubida: Neiva, 1914a, p. 59. Readio, 1927, Conorrhinus rubrofasciatus: Champion, 1899, p. 208, pl. 12, fig.22 (nee DeGeer) Triatoma uhleri Neiva, 19lla, p. 421; 1914, p. 66. Readio, 1927, p. 124. Conorhinus uhleri: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 494. Eutriatoma uhleri: Pinto, 1931, p. 102, figs. 45-48. Triatoma rubida uhleri: Usinger, 1944, p. 66, pl.I, fig.J; pl. 2; pl. II, fig.F. Triatoma mexieana Neiva, 1912, p. 21 (nee HerrichSchaeffer). Eutriatoma mexieana: Pinto, 1931, p. 92, fig.38. Conorhinus rubrofasciatus var. mexieana: Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 492. Triatoma oeellata Neiva, 1914a, p. 55. Pinto, 1931, Triatoma sonoriana Del Ponte, 1930, p. 900, fig.14. Triatoma rubida sonoriana: Usinger, 1944, p. 66, pl. II, fig.I. Triatoma rubida jaegeri Ryckman, 1967, pl. 1. Triatoma rubida eoehimiensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 1. Length of male 15.5-20.0 mm, of female 19.5-23.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.5 mm, of female 5.0-5.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5-6 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm Overall color from light reddish brown to dark reddish brown or black, with light markings from deep red to orange-red and yellow, on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum; pronotum and corium in some cases entirely dark. Setae inconspicuous, short, sparse. Head rugose, not perceptibly granulose, uniformly dark, only slightly elevated between eyes; as long as pronotum, and distinctly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.60-0.75). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.35-0.40), postocular with sides rounded. Eyes in lateral view distinctly surpassing level of under surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.20-1.75. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with short, stiff, decumbent hairs. Ratio of antennal segments l:2.9-3.3:2.4- 2.9:2.4-2.5. Rostrum stout, with short setae except at apex of second and base of third segment where there are very long, dense hairs. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.0-2.3:0.8-0.9. Neck yellowish on anterior, dark on posterior half. Pronotum dark, with sides, posterior margin, humeral angles and anterolateral processes light colored, with in some cases several or all of these regions dark. Anterior lobe not granulose, smooth, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe shallowly rugose, with submedian carinae almost attaining hind border. Humeral angles rounded, npt elevated. Anterolateral angles outwardly directed, very short, rounded apically. Scutellum dark, rugose, central depression shallow, limited by narrow ridges. Scutellar process only slightly shorter than main body of scutellum, narrowly cylindrical or somewhat compressed laterally, its apex widened or not, slightly declinate. Hemelytra extending close to apex of abdomen. Corium dark, rarely unicolorous, in most cases with large triangular area at base, most of costal margin, and small subapical spot, light colored. Legs uniformly dark. Femora of first and second pair with 1 + 1 small denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen uniformly dark except connexivum, sharply flattened below longitudinally along middle in both sexes, flattened portion bordered by sharp, posteriorly converging carinae . Surface microsculpture consisting mostly of delicate transverse striations. Spiracles close to connexival suture. Connexival segments dark on disc, pale along intersegmental sutures and along outer margin ; in some cases dark area extending to connexival border or almost so, leaving only intersegmental sutures light colored.
Triatoma rubrofasciata@Triatoma rubrofasciata (De Geer) Figures 4A-D; 68; 8A; 11, 12A; 13, 18, 198; 21, 29D, L; 159-162 Cimex rubro-fasciatus De Geer, 1773, p. 349, pl. 35, fig.12 Conorhinus rubrofasciatus: Amyot and Serville, 1843, p. 384, pl. 8, figs. 2, 2a. Stal, 1859, p. 106. Distant, 1904, p. 285, fig.189Triatoma rubrofasciata: Breddin, 1905, p. 146. Neiva, 1914a, p. 30. Larrousse, 1924a, p. 63, fig l. Pinto, 1930, p. 210, pl. 4; 1931, p. 81, figs 1-6, 29. Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 175; 1941, p 84, figs. 5, 13. Gillett, 1934, p. 4. Lent, 1943a, p. 246, figs. 6-8. Usinger, 1944, p. 64, pl. 9, fig A. Abalos and Wygodzinsy, 1951, p. 74, figs 35, 53, 119-132Cimex variegatus Drury, 1773, p. 109, pl. 45, fig.5 Reduvius (Conorhinus) variegatus: Westwood, 1837, p. 103, pl. 45, fig.5 Conorhinus variegatus: Stal, 1872, p. Ill (pro parte) Triatoma variegata: Neiva, l914a, p. 68 Reduvius gigas Fabricius, 1775, p. 729; Wolff, 1802, p. 119, pl. 12, fig.113 Cimex gigas: Gmelin, 1788, p. 2195 Nabis gigas: Latreille, 1804, p. 257 Triatoma gigas: Laporte, 1833, p. 11 Conorhinus gigas: Laporte, 1832, p. 77. HerrichSchaeffer, 1848, p. 72, pl. 271, figs. A, B, pl. 272, figs. 841-842 Cimex claviger Gmelin, 1788, p. 2179 Cimex erythrozonias Gmelin, 1788, p. 2181 La Punaise-Mouche de Surinam, Stoll, 1788, p. 55, pl. 13, fig.85 Reduvius giganti Klug in Meyen, 1834, p. 412 Conorhinus stalii Signoret, 1860, p. 967 Conorhinus limbatus Schouteden, 1907, p. 287 (nomen nudum)Triatoma rufofasciata Van Duzee, 1916, p. 29, 1917, p. 248 Triatoma evandroi Figueiredo, 1938, p. 20. Length of male 19.5-24.0 mm, of female 20-25 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 4.5-6.0 mm, of abdomen of male 6.5-9.0 mm, of female 7-10 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with yellowish and orange-red markings on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Dorsal surface conspicuously granulose. Setae short, inapparent. Head heavily granulose dorsally, uniformly dark, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1: 1.1). Anteocular region about 2.5 times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under surface but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.9-2.2. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment distinctly projecting beyond apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.8-4.0:2.2-2.6:1.6-1.9. Rostrum with abundant pilosity, hairs short on first and basal half of second segment, becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment, but not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-1.7:0.6. Neck uniformly yellowish dorsally. Pronotum dark brown or black, with sides and anterolateral processes reddish, in some cases also collar light colored; occasionally, red color invading central portion of hind lobe of pronotum. Anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum conspicuously granulose. Anterior lobe without discal or lateral tubercles. Lateral margins of pronotum only slightly indented at level of transverse constriction. Posterior lobe from very faintly to distinctly rugose transversally, most conspicuously so on central portion between sublateral carinae; the latter evanescent befre posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded, slightly elevated. Anterolateral angles short, subconical, or narrowly rounded apically. Prostemum and meso and metapleura granulose .. Scutellum of general body color but in some cases with apex of process reddish, rugose-granulose, with distinct median depression limited by posteriorly confluent carinae. Posterior process conical, subtriangular, strongly tapering from wide base to point, about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum. Hemelytra variable in length, in most specimens reaching only to basal portion or at most to middle of seventh urotergite, but in some males attaining apical portion of said urotergite. Corium granulose, from dark brown to black, its entire outer margin delicately bordered with orange-red. R + M and free portion of R enclosed in a wide reddish fascia extending to base of membrane, then sharply inwardly bent and extending along base of outer membranal cell. Membrane fumose, slightly lighter than dark portions of corium. Legs uniformly dark, relatively short and stout, with fore femur about five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora subapically with two to four obsolescent denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in females. Venter flattened longitudinally along middle, more conspicuously so in females; flattened portion not sharply delimited from lateral convex area. Hairs of venter very short, golden colored. Surface of venter with very irregular miscrosculpture, from delicately striate transversally to minutely meandering or labyrinthine . Spiracles of variable position, either adjacent to connexival suture or remote from latter by once or twice their own diameter. General color of abdomen from dark brown to black; spiracles orange. Connexival segments dark, their outer border and intersegmental sutures orange-red. Female genital region strongly projecting posteriad.
Triatoma rubrovaria@Triatoma rubrovaria (Blanchard) Figures 163-165 Conorhinus rubro-varius Blanchard in Blanchard and Brulle, 1843, p. 219, pl. 29, fig.7. Still, 1859. p 113 Triatoma rubrovaria: Neiva, 1913b, p. 196. Larrousse, 1924a, p. 66, fig.2. Del Ponte, 1930, p 894, figs. 12a, b, pl. 44, fig.3. Talice, Costa, Rial and Osimani, 1940, p. 43, pl. 1. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. IOI, figs. 44, 57, 194-208. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 62, pl. 2, fig.1Eutriatoma rubrovaria: Pinto, 1931, p. 98, fig.37Lent, 1942, p. 222, figs. 1-30. Neiva and Lent, 1943, p. 52, pl. 2Triatoma (Eutriatoma) rubrovaria: Lima, 1940, p200. Mazza, Talice and Ji:irg, 1942, p. 25, figs 14-34, pl. 2Conorhinus phyllosoma Herrich-Schaeffer, 1848, p 70, pl. 2, fig.837 (nee Burmeister) Conorhinus rubroniger Still, 1859, p. 114 Triatoma gomesi Neiva and Pinto, 1923d, p. 86. Eutriatoma gomesi: Pinto, 1931, p. 53, fig.34. Triatoma bruchi Mazza and Jorg, 1944a, p. 3, figs1-7. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 107, fig 209 (new synonymy). Length of male 21-24 mm, of female 22-25 mm, width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.5 mm, of female 4.5-7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.5-8.5 mm, of female 8-12 mm Overall color black, with red, orange, or rarely yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Integument sparsely granulose; setae short, sparse, integument appearing glabrous. Head long and slender, black, delicately rugose transversally on dorsum, faintly granulose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.5) and slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3); postocular with sides very faintly convex. Clypeus narrow, gradually and only slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view slightly surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.4-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment flattened, with numerous adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3 .8-4.5:3 .2:2.6. Rostrum as dark as head capsule or with second and third segments reddish. Setae of rostrum short, except at apex of second and on third segment where setae are about as long as diameter of segment, decreasing in length toward apex of last segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of jugae, second attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.5:1.1-1.4. Neck dark, with pair of light-colored lateral spots. Pronotum with anterior lobe invariably black; posterior lobe rarely entirely black or entirely red, in most specimens with area between submedian carinae, with carinae included, black to a varied degree . Collar and anterolateral tubercles from red to black. Anterior lobe of pronotum with elevated portions smooth, shining; with I+ I weak discal elevations which are not distinct tubercles; lateral tubercles not developed. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly rugose; submedian carinae extending to posterior fourth of hind lobe, evanescent before posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded, humeri slightly elevated. Anterolateral projections short and blunt. Scutellum entirely dark, convex, heavily rugose, basal projections obsolete. Central depression shallow. Posterior process of scutellum short, about two-fifths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, broad at base, cylindrical on apical portion, its apex rounded. Propleura entirely dark or with red spot of varied size adjacent to hind margin of sclerite. Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite in males and in some females, in other females not projecting beyond middle of seventh urotergite. Corium black, with basal and subapical light-colored spot of variable size, spots connected by narrow lightcolored line along margin of hemelytron. Membrane brown, fumose, somewhat lighter than dark area of corium. Veins of membrane only very slightly darker than membrane. Legs uniformly dark, slender; fore femora from six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small denticles subapically, femora of third pair slightly salient below subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Abdomen very wide in some specimens , with lateral areas of urotergites exposed. Venter convex, faintly flattened longitudinally along middle in females. Integument of venter delicately striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously setose. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from latter by not more than their diameter. Venter black. Connexivum black, each segment with large central red or orange spot attaining external margin of segment. Dorsally, posterior portion of light connexival spot attaining connexival margin; ventrally, light spot extending shortly onto adjacent lateral portions of urosternites so as to include spiracles.
Triatoma ryckmani@Triatoma ryckmani Zeled6n and Ponce Figures 166-167 Triatoma ryckmani Zeled6n and Ponce, 1972, p. 276, fig.I. Female. Length 20.0-20.5 mm; width of pronotum 4.5 mm, of abdomen 7 .0-7 .5 mm Dark brown on dorsum of head, on thorax and on hemelytra; yellowish brown on entire under surface as well as on corium, the latter spotted with dark. Setae of body surface short, black, adpressed, but longer and semierect on under surface of thorax and on abdominal urosternites. Head heavily rugosegranulose dorsally and laterally, smooth below along middle, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and slightly shorter than pronotum (l:1.1). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0.4); postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow, with short abrupt swelling on basal third. Genae with inner margin light colored, their apex pointed, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. In lateral view, eyes close to level of upper surface of head, and attaining level of lower surface. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.5. Antenniferous tubercle situated at level of center of anteocular region, with distinct apicoextemal setiferous projection. Antennal segments I and II dark brown. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with short, decumbent setae only. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-3.5:2.2-2.6:2.1-2.6. Rostrum slender, with very short hairs only. First rostral segment almost attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind margin of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.6-2. 7:1.0. Head dark brown, smooth, central portion of under surface and anterior portion of neck, light yellow brown. Pronotum dark brown, light to varied degree on sublateral carinae, borders of posterior and ridges of anterior lobes. Sides of pronotum strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe elevated, granulose but not forming distinct tubercles with ridges prominent. Posterior lobe heavily granulose, its lateral margin carinate; humeri rounded, sublateral carinae approaching posterior margin. Anterolateral angles short but distinct, broadly subconical. Scutellum with central depressed portion heavily rugose, limited by broad carinae; at its base 1 + 1 conspicuous submedian tubercles, overlapping posterior border of pronotum. Posterior process over half as long as main body of scutellum, cylindrical, its apex rounded or subtruncate, slightly elevated. Color of scutellum uniformly dark brown. Thoracic stema, acetabula, and part of pleura yellowish brown, remainder of pleura contrastingly dark brown. Thoracic stema with long, semierect hairs. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, appearing narrow compared to wide abdomen, leaving entire connexivum and narrow lateral portion of urotergites exposed. Clavus, most of corium and entire membrane dark brown; base of corium, its entire external margin narrowly as well as preapical spot, brownish yellow. Legs stout, fore femora 4.0-4.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two pairs of denticles followed by one or two rows of small setiferous tubercles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae. Coxae, trochantera, and basal two-thirds or three-fourths of femora yellowish, apex of femora with tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Venter conspicuously flattened below along middle; flattened portion limited laterally by 1 + 1 distinct carinae converging medially at base of third and at middle of seventh segment. Venter with irregular transverse wrinkles and numerous long, semierect hairs. Spiracles close to connexival suture . Connexival segments very wide dorsally and wider than usual for the genus ventrally . Setae of under surface of connexivum restricted to outer half of each segment . Urosternites yellowish brown; genital area dark brown. Connexival segments yellowish, with central transversal dark spot of varied size and intensity .
Triatoma sanguisuga@Triatoma sanguisuga (Leconte) Figures 26A; 168, 169 Conorhinus sanguisuga Leconte, 1855, p. 404. Walsh and Riley, 1869, p. 87, fig.74. Marlatt, 1896, p. 38, figs. 10-12. Kimball, 1896, p. 128. Howard, 1900, p. 28, figs. 22-24. Triatoma sanguisuga: Kirkaldy, 1907, p. 156. Neiva, 1914a, p. 63. Van Duzee, 1916, p. 29; 1917, p. 248. Blatchley, 1926, p. 554, fig.135. Readio, 1927, p. 120. Froeschner, 1944, p. 652, fig.86. Usinger, 1944, p. 67, pl. 11, fig.C. Mead, 1965, p. 1, figs. 1, 2. Olsen, 1966, p. 1. Conorhinus lateralis StAl, 1859, p. 107. Conothinus variegatus Sti\\l, 1872, p. 111 (nee Drury). Triatoma sanguisuga ambigua Neiva, 1911a, p. 422. Usinger, 1944, p. 68, pl. 11, fig.B. Triatoma ambigua: Davis, McGregor and Shazo, 1943, p. 353. Triatoma pintoi Larrousse, 1926, p. 138, fig.2; Del Ponte, 1930, p. 913, fig.17. Triatoma sanguisuga texana Usinger, 1944, p. 69, pl. 11, fig.A. Length of male 15.5-22.0 mm, of female 20.5-23.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male and female 4.0-5.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5.5-8.0 mm, of female 6-9 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with orange-red or yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, hemelytra and connexivum. Pilosity inconspicuous, most distinct on under surface of abdomen and on legs. Head granulose, uniformly dark, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55), and very slightly shorter than pronotum (l:l.05). Postocular region distinctly rounded in dorsal view. Anteocular region somewhat more than twice as long as postocular (l:0.45). Eyes in side view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface of head, remote from level of upper surface. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.65-2.10. Antenniferous tubercles situated on posterior third of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling slightly short of apex of clypeus; second segment with short hairs only. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-3.5:2.3-2.8:2.0-2.5 Rostrum with sparse, very short setae only; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.0:0.5. Neck reddish or dark with l + l lateral spots reddish. Pronotum with fore lobe slightly granulose; discal tubercles very low or imperceptible; lateral tubercles missing. Hind lobe rugose, with humeral angles rounded, slightly elevated. General color of pronotum dark brown to black, with lateral margins from orange-red to yellowish, the light area in many cases extending onto humeral disc and on collar including anterolateral angles. General aspect of pronotum thus characterized by dark disc contrasting with light-colored anterior and lateral borders as well as lateral portions of hind margin, bordered by reddish line of varied width. Scutellum rugose with irregular delicate carinae limiting central depression; apical process sybcylindrical, not quite as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, apex rounded and slightly declinate. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium with sparse, short, inconspicuous setae; basal triangle reddish orange or yellowish, a large central area dark brown and extending over entire width of corium, a smaller subapical spot orange-red or yellowish, extreme apex of corium dark; clavus dark on basal, light brown on apical half. Legs uniformly dark; femora of first and second pairs with 1 + 1 pointed denticles subapically. Fore femur 4.3-4.9 times as long as wide. Tibiae of first and second pairs of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. General color of abdomen uniformly dark; ventrally with abundant pilosity and delicately striate transversally. Spiracles close to but not contiguous with connexival suture. Connexival segments dorsally and ventrally dark, with the posterior third or fourth orange-red or yellowish, the light color extending briefly onto urosternites.
Triatoma sinaloensis@Triatoma sinaloensis Ryckman Figures 170, 171 Triatoma sinaloensis Ryckman, 1962, p. 118, pl. 2, fig.L. This species is so similar to T peninsularis that a detailed redescription is not necessary. Triatoma sinaloensis is slightly smaller than peninsularis (males 10.3-11.5 mm, females 10-4-12.5 mm), the overall color is from light to dark reddish brown, and the body surface is highly polished. The slight difference in head shape may also be of taxonomic importance.
Triatoma sinica@Triatoma sinica Hsiao Figures 172, 173 Triatoma sinica Hsiao, 1965, p. 197, fig.I. Length of male 22 mm, of female 24 mm; width of pronotum of female 6 mm, of abdomen 9.5 mm Female (male not examined). Overall color dark brown to black, with yellowish or reddish markings on pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body integument highly polished; pilosity very short and sparse. Head including clypeus and genae heavily rugose transversally on dorsum and only slightly granulose; dark reddish brown, with sides black dorsally. Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.7), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4), postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus elevated in lateral view, rather broad on anterior portion, basal third abruptly widened. Genae tapering but not pointed apically, slightly but distinctly surpassFIG. 172. Triatoma sinica, female, paratype. A. General aspect. B. Anterior portion of insect, dorsal view, higher magnification. ing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in side view surpassing level of lower and not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1: 1. 7. Ocelli large, their diameter greater than their distance from hind border of eyes. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black. First segment slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus and of genae; second about five times as long as first, only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments ( calculated from measurements given by Hsiao, 1965) 1:4.6:2.9:2.4. Rostrum with short hairs except on apex of second and on third segment, but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle, second reaching level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.4-1.6:0.5. Neck entirely yellowish dorsally. Pronotum highly polished. Anterior lobe with smooth areas dark brown or black, elevated areas yellowish brown. Lateral margins of pronotum with humeri, as well as collar with anterolateral processes light colored. Posterior lobe black, with submedian carinae, a median band arising at transversal sulcus and attaining posterior margin of pronotum, and 1 + 1 sub lateral spots at posterior margin, reddish brown. Pronotum trapezoidal, with sides not constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe not granulose; submedian carinae of posterior lobe short, not extending beyond middle of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly explanate. Anterolateral angles short, rounded or angular apically. Pleura heavily rugose, dark, with acetabula slightly lighter. Scutellum dark, with central depression and posterior process rugose, yellowish brown. Posterior process about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, its apex rounded. Hemelytra approaching apex of abdomen. Corium dark, with small orange-colored narrow subbasal spot and subapical Ushaped spot. Costal margin narrowly yellow. Membrane smoky brown, lighter than dark portion of corium. Legs uniformly dark brown, stout; fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 3-4 small setiferous denticles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae (possibly present in male). Abdomen wide, with lateral portions of urotergites not completely covered by hemelytra. Venter distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, flattened portion not sharply separated from lateral convex portion. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or separated from same by distance less than diameter of spiracle. Pilosity of venter inapparent. Venter dark reddish brown; connexivum pale yellow, faintly tinged with pink. Each connexival segment at center with irregular shaped transverse black spot wider at outer than at inner margin of segment.
Triatoma sordida@Triatoma sordida (Stlll) Figures 174-176 Conorhinus sordidus StAI, 1859, p. 108. Triatoma sordida: Chagas, 1912, p. 306. Neiva, 1914a, p. 35. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 901, pl. 44, fig.2. Mazza and Jorg, 1944e, p. 51, figs. 1-5. Wygodzinsky and Abalos, 1950, p. 63, figs. 3, 48, D, G; 6K, N; 80-F; 98, C, F. H. K, M; 11. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 79, figs. 39, 46, 61, 133-149, 176-178. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 39, pl. 1, fig.I. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 44, fig.25. Eutriatoma sordida: Pinto, 1931, p. 100, figs. 43, 44. Mazza and Jorg, 1938, p. 26, figs. 1-7, pl. 1. Triatoma garciabesi Carcavallo et al., 1967, p. 44, figs. I, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 43, pl. 1, fig.4. (new synonymy). Length of male 14-19 mm, of female 15-20 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 4-5 mm, of abdomen of male 6.5-7.0 mm, of female 7-8 mm Overall color from light to (rarely) dark brown, with pale yellow areas on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, legs, connexivum, and in some specimens, venter. Integument beset with short, sparse setae. Head brown, with anteocular area yellowish; head rugose and granulose, heavily so on sides before and behind eyes. Head slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55-0.60), and from as long as to slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.85-1.0). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0.30-0.35), postocular with sides slightly rounded, converging toward behind. Clypeus very narrow, slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering or rarely pointed apically, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae yellowish, subangular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under and approaching but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:0.75-1.20. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment subcylindrical, beset with numerous inclined setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:2.5-3.6:2.5- 2.8:1.7-2.0. Rostrum as dark as head capsule, or, more frequently, with some or all segments very light yellowish brown. Setae of rostrum very short, a few slightly longer ones on apical segment, these setae not longer than diameter of segment. First rostral segment very short, not quite extending to level of apex of jugae, second attaining level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.4-2.9:1.1-1.4. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum sparsely granulose, brown, in most specimens with anterolateral processes and elevated areas of anterior lobe including tubercles yellow; humeri invariably with yellow mark. Anterior lobe with distinct discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe strongly wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to hind border of pronotum. Humeral angles narrowly rounded, faintly angular. Anterolateral projections of pronotum small but salient, narrowly rounded apically. Scutellum coarsely rugose; central depression well developed. Color of scutellum dark brown except apical portion of posterior scutellar process yellow. Scutellar process large, about three-fourths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, slightly tapering apically, obliquely truncate distally in lateral view. Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. General color of hemelytra from light to very dark brown. Corium with triangular basal spot yellow, and with apex also yellow, or not, or corium entirely yellowish with only veins on apical two-thirds of corium conspicuously darkened. Membrane fumose, from light to very dark brown, veins darker than cells, especially distal two-thirds of Cu separating membranal cells, this portion of vein narrowly bordered with dark. Legs with coxae and trochantera pale yellow, in some specimens with faint brownish spots. Femora yellow, with subapical annulus dark. Tibiae brown, darkest at apex, and with small light-colored annulus at base. Legs relatively slender, fore femora 4.6 to 5.4 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of stout denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in females. Venter convex, feebly flattened in some specimens of either sex, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles variable in position, from adjacent to cormexival margin to distant from latter by twice their diameter. Venter either entirely brown except narrowly at sides, or suffused to greater or lesser extent with yellow. Connex - ivum yellow, light-colored areas briefly extending on urotergites and urostemites including area of spiracles. Connexivum dorsally with transverse black marks, viz., a narrow black line along intersegmental sutures, expanded on connexival margin into a large spot; in some specimens, a wider and rather uniform black transverse stripe straddling intersegmental suture. Under surface of connexival segments yellow, with small dark spot straddling intersegmental suture adjacent to outer margin; transversal markings invariably absent on ventral portion of connexivum.
Triatoma spinolai@Triatoma spinolai Porter Figures 6E, G; SC; 208, C; 228; 177-180 Triatoma spinolai Porter, 1934, p. 192; 1939, p. 124, pl. 8. Gajardo, 1939, p. 35, figs. 1, 2. Neiva and Lent, 1940b, p. 355, figs. 1, 4, 5. Lent and Jurberg, 1967, p. 273, figs. 1-42Triatoma chilena Usinger, 1939, p. 45 Mepraia spinolai: Mazza, Gajardo and Jorg, 1940, p. 3, figs. 1-27. Mazza, Jorg and Gajardo, 1941, p. 3, figs. 3-7, 13-17, 20-24. Gajardo, 1954, p 117Triatomaptera porteri Neiva and Lent, 1940a, p266; 1940b, p. 357, fi--gs. 2, 3, 6; 1943, p 62, figs. 2, 3, 6, pl. 3Sexually dimorphic species; males macropterous, brachypterous, or micropterous; females micropterousMacropterous male . Length 18-22 mm, width of pronotum 3.5-5 mm, of abdomen 4.8-6.5 mm Overall color dark brown, connexivum and part of adjacent sclerites red. Dorsal body surface shortly pilose; antennae, rostrum, legs, and under surface of body with long hairs. Head very dark, transversally rugose dorsally, weakly granulose, narrowly cylindrical, apical portion (from level of apex of antenniferous tubercles to apex) conspicuously compressed laterally; under surface of head with scattered long hairs. Head approximaely twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50), and much longer than pronotum (l:0.65-0.80). Anteocular region three to four times as long as wide (l:0.25-0.30); postocular with sides very feebly rounded, almost straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened at apex and gradually so on posterior third. Genae narrowly rounded apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, blunt apically. Eyes in side view attaining or surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.40-1.75. Ocelli large, their length equal to their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment slender, almost glabrous, extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with very numerous semi-erect ciliate hairs about twice as long as diameter of segment, and less numerous scattered elongate bristles from twice to more than four times as long as diameter of segment; similar hairs and bristles on third and fourth segments. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.9:3:2.2. Rostrum of same color as head. First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second extending to slightly behind level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments slender, the second compressed dorsoventrally; first and second with hairs approximately as long as diameter of segments, but longer than diameter on third segment. Hairs not dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2-2.8:0.6-0.7. Neck lighter than head, with l + l very faint lateral spots yellow. Pronotum subtrapezoidal, uniformly dark, although somewhat lighter than remaining parts of body. Anterior lobe deeply sculptured and granulose, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe delicately rugose and wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, conical. Scutellum subtriangular, its surface from rugose to almost smooth, conspicuously elevated, and with median depression from small to indistinct. Posterior process of scutellum extremely small, subconical, only from one-sixth to one-eighth of length of main body of scutellum; its apex horizontal or upturned. Mesostemum limited posteriorly by prominent transverse straight ridge; metasternum longitudinally carinate along middle posteriorly . Hemelytra attaining or surpassing apex of abdomen by up to two mm, their color uniformly dark brown. Hind wings as illustrated . Legs uniformly dark, unusually long and slender, especially third pair. Fore femora from 8 to IO times as long as wide. Femora inermous. Fore and mid tibiae with spongy fossulae. Femora and especially tibiae and tarsi in addition to normal hairs with others several times as long as diameter of article. Setae of posterior tarsus shown in figure 1808. Venter convex, minutely striate transversally, and with delicate elongate semierect setae most numerous on posterior segments, in preserved speciments examined appearing carinate longitudinally along middle. Spiracles close to but not adjoining connexival suture. Ventral connexival plates hinged to dorsal sclerites; dorsal connexival plates fused to urotergites . Connexivum red, either entirely so, or especially dorsally, each connexival plate on disc with black spot , variable in size, attaining or not lateral margin of sclerite. Red color extending to a varied degree to urostemites, especially along intersegmental suture . Spiracles enclosed in light spot. Male genitalia as usual for genus, but lateral endosoma process large and foliaceous, appearing permanently everted . 8rachypterous male. Similar to macropterous male, but hemelytra and wings abbreviated , only attaining fifth or sixth urotergite, their venation complete. Micropterous male and female . Length of male 17.5-19.0 mm, of female 19.5-21.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 3 mm, width of abdomen of male 5.2-6.0 mm, of female 6.5-8.0 mm Overall color black, with red markings on abdomen. Pilosity as in winged form. Head dark , somewhat lighter laterally and ventrally. General structure of head as in winged form; head approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45) and almost twice as long as pronotum (1:0.5- 0.6). Anteocular region close to three times as long as postocular (1:0.3); postocular with sides almost straight, subparallel. Clypeus, genae, and jugae as in winged form. Eyes small, in side view from slightly to considerably distant from level of lower surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.7-2.1 in male, 1:3.3-3.8 in female. Ocelli small, their length equal to half their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercle and first antennal segment as in winged form. Second antennal segment of male with long bristles and ciliate hairs, the latter less numerous than in macropterous male, in female only with long bristles; setae of third and fourth segments of both sexes as in winged male. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.6-4.1:3.1- 3.3:2.0. Rostrum as in winged form . Pronotum much reduced in size, subquadrate, posterior lobe about as long as anterior. Anterior lobe conspicuously convex; elevated ridges delicately granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose and wrinkled; submedian carinae conspicuous, occupying three-fourths of length of hind lobe; disc of posterior lobe depressed between carinae and between carinae and lateral margins. Posterior margin of pronotum rounded; lateral borders of posterior lobe emarginated. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral comers as in winged form. Scutellum situated on semicircular sclerite, subtriangular, wider than long, heavily rugose, with an ill-defined, narrow median longitudinal impression, this depression in some specimens imperceptible. Posterior process of scutellum obsolescent. Hemelytra reduced to small suboval sclerites not extending beyond hind margin of mesonotum; veins absent, but claval suture perceptible. Hind wings reduced to minute pads , all but their extreme apex covered by hemelytra. Legs of male and female as in winged form; legs of male longer than those of female. Legs of female without spongy fossulae. Venter convex, appearing carinate in preserved males examined, not flattened below in well-preserved females. Surface of urotergites and urostemites with extremely fine transverse striation, coarser on seventh urotergite of male and seventh and eighth urotergites of female. Anterolateral portion of urostemites delicately chagrine. Spiracles as in winged form. Structure of connexivum of male as in winged form. In female dorsal connexival plates fused to urotergites, with vestigial connexival suture perceptible in some cases. Ventral connexival plates of female narrow, hinged to dorsal plates but separated from lateral portion of urostemites by large membranous area. Connexivum red, with variable black markings as in winged form, red color extending to a varied degree to urotergites and urosternites along intersegmental sutures. Dorsal intersegmental sutures separating urotergites reddish in many specimens. Anterior urotergites in some cases reddish at center. Genitalia of male as in winged form .
Triatoma tibiamaculata@Triatoma tibiamaculata (Pinto) Figures 181-183 Eutriatoma tibiamaculata Pinto, 1926a, p. 134, figs. C-E; 1931, p. IOI, figs. 30, 39. Triatoma (Eutriatoma) tibia-maculata: Lima, 1940, p. 199, fig.383. Triatoma tibiamaculata: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 902, fig.2. Lent, 1943a, p. 242, figs. 1-5. Correa, 1954, p. 5, figs. I, 2. Borba and Luz, 1972, p. 58. Length of male 29-30 mm, of female 32.0-33.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 7.0-7.5 mm, of female 7.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male IO. 0-IO. 5 mm, of female 11.0-12.5 mm Overall color black, with red and light orange-brown markings on neck pronotum, scutellum, corium, legs, and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse, inconspicuous. Head black, slightly granulose-punctate, conspicuously rugose laterally. Head twice as long as wide (l:0.5), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (l: 1.0-1.1). Clypeus elongate, slightly widened behind middle. Genae blunt apically, falling distinctly short of apex of clypeus. Jugae small, narrowly angular, apical portion diverging from surface of cephalic capsule. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l: 1.3-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles located behind center of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment with apex very close to level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous short adpressed setae and other, decumbent ones as long as or slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.7-3.0:2.4-2.7:1.7-1.8. Rostrum black; first segment falling short of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment extending to level of posterior limit of neck. Rostral segments subcylindrical, with short setae, except on third segment with not very numerous setae as long as diameter of article. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.6:0.4- 0.6. Neck black, with pair of lateral orangebrown spots. Pronotum black, with bright red markings on tubercles and forming narrow stripes. Anterior lobe with l + l discal and l + l lateral red tubercles; submedian carinae beginning immediately behind discal tubercles, extending close to posterior margin of sclerite, red, with red stripes continuing to hind border of sclerite, their ends connected by transversal red stripe along hind border. Lateral carinae of pronotum undulate, bordered with red from anterolateral processes to humeral angles. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral processes of pronotum prominent, subconical, red. Pleura and stema black, propleura light colored along hind margin. Scutellum black, apex of posterior process contrastingly red; median depression shallow, narrowly subtriangular. Posterior process of scutellum two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, rugose, conical, wide at base, rounded-obtuse apically. Hemelytra extending to or closely approaching posterior border of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium light orangebrown, in some cases basally tinged with red, and with elongate wide black markings along some veins and in cells. Base of clavus and part of its outer margin dark. Membrane fumose, brownish, veins black. Legs black on coxae, trochantera and femora, the latter with short apical annulus yellowish, similarly colored on extreme base extending in some specimens to trochanter. Tibiae light yellowish brown, their apex annulate with black. Legs long and slender; fore femora from seven to eight times as long as wide. Femora without subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, only on fore tibiae in females. Venter convex, not distinctly flattened, delicately striate transversally, with very short, sparse setae. Spiracles close to or adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown, spiracles yellowish. Connexivum marked with black and light yellowish brown or reddish brown. Anterior two-thirds of each connexival segment dark, posterior third light; connexival sutures separating dark and light areas.
Triatoma venosa@Triatoma venosa (Stal) Figures 184, 185 Conorhinus venosus Stal, 1872, p. lll. Triatoma venosa: Neiva, 1914a, p. 70. Lent, 1950, p. 437, fig.I. Marinkelle, 1972, p. 15. Eutriatoma venosa: Pinto, 1931, p. 104. Length of male 18.5 mm, of female 22 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5 mm, of female 5.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 6.5 mm, of female 9.0 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with head and legs reddish brown and yellowish or orange-red markings on thorax, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument rugose, granulose on some areas. Setae slender, short, golden colored1 not conspicuous. Head delicately rugose, reddish brown, dorsally with l+ l black stripes extending from level of base of clypeus to ocellar tubercles, enclosing median longitudinal granulose band. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4-0.5), and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.9). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.33), postocular with sides very faintly rounded, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, elongate, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae rounded distally, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in side view attaining level of lower but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.4. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first very short, not extending beyond basal two-thirds of gena. Second antennal segment with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-3.3:2.8-2.9:1.8. Rostrum dark brown, darker than reddish head capsule, with short, inconspicuous setae. First rostral segment short, not extending beyond level of center of gena; second segment very long and slender, attaining level of hind border of head; third as long as or longer than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.2-3.5:1.0-l.l. Neck uniformly reddish brown. Pronotum black, with orange-red markings. Anterior lobe with one central reddish spot extending from collar to transversal furrow, and 1 + l sublateral shorter markings. Posterior lobe with elongate red markings, one central and 1+ 1 sublateral, all extending from transverse furrow to posterior border of pronotum. Lateral and posterior margins of pronotum bordered with red except area of submedian dark markings which extend to hind border. Anterolateral angles red. Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal but without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe rugose and slightly granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections shortly subcylindrical, rounded apically. Scutellum black, heavily rugose, its posterior process red, stout, two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, rounded-truncate apically. Pleura black, with extensive reddish or yellowish areas. Hemelytra reaching apex of abdomen. Clavus, corium, and membrane black, with veins conspicuously yellowish and bordered with yellow. Base of corium with Vshaped marking extending onto subbasal portion of clavus. Apex of corium yellowish red. Cells of membrane unicolorous. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur about six times as long as wide. Femora faintly granulose as sides and below; femora of all pairs of legs subapically with two or three unusually large denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen rounded below, minutely striate transversally. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Pilosity of venter inconspicuous, delicate, ad pressed. Venter dark brown, spiracles yellowish. Connexivum black, with narrow transversal yellowish red markings straddling intersegmental sutures, with red area occupying anterior segment larger than that on posterior segment.
Triatoma vitticeps@Triatoma vitticeps (Stal) Figures 86; 186-188 Conorhinus vitticeps Stal, 1859, p. 109 Triatoma vitticeps: Neiva, 1914a, p. 71. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 905, pl. 53. Pinto, 1931, p. 62, fig.9 Triatoma chagasi Brumpt and Gomes, 1914, p. 75, fig.1Triatoma holmbergi Del Ponte, 1923, p. 66; 1925, p28, pl. I, fig.BTriatoma chagasi var. holmbergi: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 865, pl. 42, fig.1Triatoma neivai Del Ponte, 1923, p. 66; 1925, p. 30, pl. I. fig.CTriatoma chagasi var. neivai: Del Ponte, 1930, p867, pl. 42, fig.2. Length of male 27.5-33.0 mm, of female 28.5-38.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 7-8 mm, of female 7 .0-8.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 10. 0-13. 5 mm , of female 10.0-14.5 mm Overall color very dark brown tending toward black, with reddish brown or orange-red markings on head, neck, pronotum, pleura, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Pleura and under surface of thorax and abdomen dull. Pilosity short and sparse. Head dark brown, dorsally along center with reddish brown band extending from level of ocelli to clypeus. Head feebly rugose and granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0.6) and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1-1.2). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus abruptly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, attaining or slightly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae pointed apically, terminal portion toothlike, in some cases diverging from surface of head capsule. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.9-2.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly beyond middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second article with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3 .0-3 .2:2.2-2. 7:1. 9-2.0. Rostrum as dark as head capsule; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment extending to or beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical; dorsal surface of second and third segments, and under surface of apical third or half of second, and entire third segment with dense long hairs, many longer than diameter of respective segment. Remainder of rostrum with sparse short hairs. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.7-1.9:0.8. Neck dark brown, with a pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum dark brown, with reddish pattern elements. Anterior lobe faintly granulose, with 1 + 1 small, low, reddish discal protuberances; in some specimens, lateral tubercles in shape of low protuberances also perceptible. Posterior lobe rugose. Submedian carinae relatively short, evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Posterior lobe of pronotum dark brown, with three pairs of reddish brown markings; 1 + I on lateral portion of lobe extending to humeral angles; 1 + 1 sublateral markings lateral of submedian carinae extending for whole length of posterior lobe, and I+ I shorter submedian markings separated medially only by central longitudinal sulcus of posterior lobe. Size of reddish markings variable, in some cases more extended than described above, partly confluent; in some specimens almost entire anterior lobe reddish, or pronotum with entire lateral and posterior margin narrowly bordered with red. Anterolateral projections reddish brown, large, truncate or subconical, slightly flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum rugose and faintly granulose, dark brown, with central depression wide, reddish. Posterior process of scutellum about as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, horizontal, with apex rounded and slightly elevated. Propleura posteriorly with reddish spot of variable extension, in some cases occupying almost entire pleura. Anterior acetabula variously marked with reddish. Hemelytra in most specimens attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite, only rarely slightly shorter. Color of hemelytra dark brown, darkest at center of corium and at base of membranal cells. Corium with light markings basally or subbasally or both, subapically, and in some cases also narrowly along costal margin. Portion of Cu in corium and portions of veins enclosing basal half of inner membranal cell very light colored and bordered with light. Membrane fumose, dark brown. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femora slender, six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with pair of welldeveloped denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae with spongy fossulae in both sexes. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally, and with short setae. Spiracles adjoining or very close to connexival suture. Urosternites dark brown, except small light spots enclosing spiracles. Connexivum extensively dark brown, disc of segments with yellowish or light orange-red transverse markings distinctly smaller than dark areas; light markings coming closer to posterior than to anterior intersegmental sutures. Yellow markings of under surface of connexivum in some cases smaller than corresponding ones on dorsal surface.
Triatoma williami@Triatoma williami Galvao, Souza and Lima Figures 189, 190 Triatoma williami Galvao, Souza and Lima, 1965, p. 363, fig.I. Galviio, Souza and Lima, 1967, p. 400, figs. Travassos Filho, 1972, p. 263, fig.1. Galviio and Fuentes, 1971, p. 141, figs. 1-3. Length of male 25.0-25.5 mm, of female 26-28 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5 mm, of female 6 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.5-9.0 mm, of female 10.0-10.5 mm Overall color dark brown to black, with yellow markings on neck, hemelytra, and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse. Head black, delicately rugose and granulose, approximately twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50), and distinctly longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25), postocular with sides straight, distinctly converging posteriorly. Clypeus elongate, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.25-l.45. Antenniferous tubercles located at center of anteocular region of head. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.9- 5.1:3.2:? Rostrum as dark as head or lighter brown; first segment falling short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of posterior margin of eyes. Rostrum slender, with short hairs except on third segment where hairs are as long as diameter of segment although not very dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.3-2.6:l.O-l.05. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellowish spots. Pronotum entirely black. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not granulose, without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, conical, subacute apically. Scutellum uniformly dark, with shallow median depression; posterior process shortly subconical, not more than half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, wide at base, very narrowly rounded apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite in both sexes. Clavus dark at base and along outer margin. Corium light yellowish brown with veins dark, in some places veins also bordered with dark. Membrane fumose, grayish brown, darker than light colored areas of corium; veins of membrane conspicuously dark. Legs uniformly dark, long and slender. Fore femora 7-8 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, not distinctly so in male, delicately striate transversally, with sparse, very short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Abdomen wide, extreme lateral portions of urotergites exposed, not covered by hemelytra . Urosternites dark brown, except minute yellow spots enclosing spiracles. Connexivum pale yellow, segments with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment, and dorsally but not ventrally darkened along connexival suture.
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@Triatoma wygodzinskyi Lent Figures 191-193 Triatoma wygodzinskyi Lent, l95lb, p. 349, figs. l-3. Length of male 19. 0-19. 5 mm, of female 19-20 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.0-6.5 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm Overall color black, with reddish markings on neck, humeral region of pronotum, corium, and connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head black, rugose anterolaterally, granulose dorsally, less than twice as long as wide (l:0.6) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.35), postocular with sides rounded and converging toward behind. Clypeus long and narrow, only slightly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in side view considerably surpassing level of lower and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.4. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus; second antenna) segment 4.5 times as long as first (remaining not preserved). Rostrum from reddish brown to black. Second and third segments somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, slender in lateral view. Rostrum appearing glabrous, except third segment with numerous distinct but short hairs. First segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not reaching to apex of antenniferous tubercles; second attaining level of hind margin of eye. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.2-2.4:1.0. Neck dark, with pair of very small reddish spots laterally. Pronotum black, with distinct reddish spot on each humeral region, and, in some specimens, with large spot on disc between carinae posteriorly. Anterior lobe not granulose, without discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled; submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections prominent, conical, not flattened -dorsoventrally. Scutellum with distinct median depression. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about three-fourths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal with apex slightly upturned, distally rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Process uniformly dark. Hemelytra extending to apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium dark brown, with extensive areas subbasally, subapically and at center, reddish. Base of clavus also reddish, its remainder light brown. Membrane fumose, light brown, lightest at base; veins distinctly darker than cells. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femora 5-6 times as long as wide. Femora of fore and mid legs with a pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened in female, delicately striate transversally, sparsely beset with short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites uniformly dark, except minute light colored spot enclosing spiracles. Connexival segments with central two-thirds occupied by light red spot extending across entire width of segment, thus transverse narrow black band straddling intersegmental suture. Male genitalia with endosomal processes not over half as long as phallosoma, weakly sclerotized, their apices with about 20 teeth .
ERATYRUS STAL@ERATYRUS STAL Eratyrus Stal, 1859, p. 103. Pinto, 1931, p. 131 Usinger, 1944, p. 37. Lent and Jurberg, 1970, p. 297. Triatomini. Large sized (23-29 mm). Body not conspicuously flattened. Overall color dark, with few pattern elements. Head and thorax not granulose, with short setae only. Head elongate, narrowly cylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head. Rostrum as long as head, slender, extending to level of prosternum; first and second segments elongate, although first not quite as long as second; third very short, without rostral organ. Antennae unusually long, reaching to basal portion of membrane when bent backward. Anterior lobe of pronotum with conspicuous discal tubercles or spines, but without lateral tubercles. Humeri with spinelike processes. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellum with unusually long process, as long as or longer than main body of scutellum, reflexed, acute. Hemelytra with corium (except cell adjoining clavus) covered with conspicuous short erect bristles. Femora armed with series of small denticles. Spongy fossulae present in males. Abdomen with connexival segments normally developed. Venter flattened longitudinally along middle. Female genitalia elongate, pointed. Male genitalia with vesica strongly sclerotized. Fifth instar nymph: As described for tribe; fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first and second segments elongate, third short, without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen semimembranous, not granulose, dorsally with series of five prominent median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum attaining prosternum, slender, first segment slightly over half as long as second; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Eratyrus cuspidatus@Eratyrus cuspidatus Stal Figures SH, 194, 195A-G, I Eratyrus cuspidatus Stal, 1859, p. 103. Usinger, 1944, p. 37, pl. 8, fig.A. Lent and Jurberg, 1970, p. 306, figs. 4-9, 17-20, 23-24, 29-32, 37-38, 45-50, 58-64. Conorhinus cuspidatus: Walker, 1873b, p. 14. Length of male 24-27 mm, of female 25-31 mm; width of thorax of male and female 5-6 Spanish version of key, p. 479; Portuguese version, p. 496. mm; width of abdomen of male 7-8 mm, of female 8-10 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with sides of neck and abdominal venter yellowish; corium with reddish mark subapically. Integument not granulose, setae of dorsal surface numerous, short. Head of general color, its integument smooth, with numerous short strong bristles. Head two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.40-0.45) and from distinctly to slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.75-0.95). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.35); postocular relatively short, ratio width to length 1:0.5-0.6, its sides distinctly rounded. Clypeus narrow, slightly swollen on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral aspect attaining level of lower and closely approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.65. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined bristles, shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments l:4.0- 4.5:3.75-4.05:3.15-3.45. Rostrum of same color as head capsule, slender, segments subcylindrical. Setae of rostrum short, scattered, about as long as diameter of second segment on its apical half, on third segment longer than its diameter. First rostral segment extending to or slightly beyond middle of distance from antenniferous tubercle to anterior margin of eye. Second rostral segment slightly longer than first, extending to base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.IOl.15:0.30-0.35. Neck yellowish at sides, dark at center above. Pronotum with numerous short stiff bristles. Ridges of anterior lobe low but conspicuous. Discal tubercles low, rounded apically, occasionally almost imperceptible. Posterior lobe irregularly and shallowly rugose throughout. Submedian carinae attaining posterior margin of sclerite, inwardly curved apically. Humeri salient, angulate but not spined . Scutellum transversally rugose, with shallow median depression; remainder of scutellum only faintly rugose. Inclination of scutellar spine variable; angle fonned by spine and surface of hemelytra varying from 30 to 50 degrees. Hemelytra covering entire length of abdomen, but leaving genitalia of female exposed. Hemelytra dark brown or black, darkest on corium; clavus, cell adjoining clavus, and membrane all fumose, dark brown; corium black, with relatively large subapical reddish spot, attaining or surpassing level of mcu cross- vein . Legs strong, elongate, fore femur 5.5-6.8 times as long as wide. Fore femora with double row of 4-6 minute setigerous tubercles, more conspicuous in male than in female; mid and hind femora without distinct denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen dark, with center of dorsal and ventral surface pale yellow. Venter convex, distinctly and abruptly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes. Urosternites delicately and shallowly striate transversally, with numerous fine decumbent hairs. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by a distance equal to once or twice their diameter. Connexivum uniformly dark, almost twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. Genitalia of male as shown in figure 195E, G; free portion of vesica convex in side view . Genitalia of female in dorsal view as shown in figure 1951.
Eratyrus mucronatus@Eratyrus mucronatus Stil Figures 13B; 140; 22E; 24M; 29G; 30F; 196-198 Eratyrus mucronatus StAI, 1859, p. 103. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 70, fig.18. Lumbreras, 1960, p. 214, figs. 1, 2. Lent and Jurberg, 1970, p. 304, figs. 2, 3, 10-16, 21-22, 25-28, 33-36, 39-44, 51-57. Conorhinus mucronatus: Walker, 1873b, p. 14. Length of male 23-27 mm, of female 25.5-29.0 mm, width of thorax of male and female 5.0-5.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 6.0-7.5 mm, of female 8.0-8.5 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with sides of neck and underside of abdomen yellowish; corium with reddish mark subapically. Integument not granulose; setae short. Head of general color, its integument not granulose or rugose, with scattered stout bristles. Head two and onehalf times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.75- 0.80). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular relatively elongate, ratio width to length 1:0.6-0.7; its sides faintly convex, slightly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, somewhat swollen on posterior half. Genae tapering apically but not pointed, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral aspect attaining level of upper and of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis widely variable, 1:0.80-1.45. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment beset with short inclined bristles shorter than diameter of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.6-5.0:3.6-3.9:2.9-3.2. Rostrum dark reddish brown, slightly lighter than head capsule, slender, segments subcylindrical. Setae of rostrum very short and comparatively sparse, except third segment with setae longer than its diameter. First rostral segment extending to middle or beyond middle of space between antenniferous tubercle and anterior margin of eye. Second segment of rostrum from slightly to distinctly longer than first, extending to level of base of neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.05- 1.25:0.25-0.35. Neck yellowish at sides, dark above at center. Pronotum with anterior lobe almost smooth, ridges poorly developed. Discal tubercles in shape of short or long acutely pointed spines, when elongate curving slightly backward. Posterior lobe irregularly wrinkled throughout, with submedian carinae extending very closely to posterior margin of pronotum, their apical portion mediad curved. Humeri with distinct suberect spinelike projections of varied length but invariably shorter than spines of anterior lobe. Anterolateral projections of pronotum large, prominent, elongate subconical but not spinelike. Scutellum with shallow median transversely rugose impression, remainder of scutellum glabrous. Inclination of scutellar spine extremely variable, angle formed by spine and hemelytra varying between 30 and 60 degrees. Hemelytra covering entire abdominal length, but leaving genitalia of female exposed. Hemelytra of general dark color, with subapical reddish spot on corium relatively small, not attaining anteriorly level of m-cu cross vein . Legs strong, elongate; fore femur 5.7-6.3 times as long as wide. Fore femora with double row of 6-7 small setiferous denticles on apical half below; mid and hind femora with one or two similar denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen dark, but center of dorsal and ventral surface pale yellow. Venter convex, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle in both sexes although more conspicuously so in female. Urosternites delicately and very shallowly striate transversally, with delicate decumbent hairs. Spiracles close to connexival suture, separated from latter by distance not larger than their diameter. Connexivum uniformly dark, almost twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. Genitalia of male with free portion of vesica flattened or slightly concave in lateral view .
Linshcosteus Distant@Linshcosteus Distant , 1904, p. 287. Pinto, 1931, p. 134. Usinger , 19 3 9 , p. 35. Neiva and Lent , 1941, p. 69. Ghauri, 1976, p. 183. Cenaeus Pinto, 1925a , p. 88 (nee Stll ). Triatomini. Medium sized (17-28 mm). Body conspicuously flattened. Overall color black. Head and thorax densely beset with setiferous granules; setae short and inconspicuous. Head elongate subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated before middle of anteocular region of head. Rostrum abbreviated, shorter than head, not extending to level of prosternum. First and third rostral segments short, second elongate. Third segment without rostral organ. Fore lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles. Humeral angles not spined. Prosternum without stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar spine subconical, narrowly tapering apically. Legs with femora unarmed; spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Abdomen very wide; lateral portions of urotergites exposed, not covered by hemelytra. Dorsal and ventral connexival segments normally developed. Venter of abdomen conspicuously flattened longitudinally along middle. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; rostrum abbreviated, not extending to level of neck, first segment much shorter than second, third segment without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus absent; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally with series of well-developed median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum abbreviated, not attaining level of neck; stridulatory sulcus absent; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Linshcosteus carnifex@Linshcosteus carnifex Distant, 1904, p. 287, fig.190. Pinto, 1927, p. lll, fig.11; 1931, p. 135, fig.70. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 74, figs. 11, 12. Ghauri, 1976, p. 184 (part), figs. l, 2 . Cenaeus carnifex: Pinto, 1925a, p. 88, figs. 57, 58 (nee Fabricius). Female holotype . Length 25.5 mm; width of pronotum 5.6 mm, of abdomen 10 mm Overall color dark brown or black. Pilosity short, inconspicuous. Head with numerous low setiferous tubercles, except narrowly along middle below. Head over twice as long as wide (1:0.4) and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7). Anteocular region five times as long as postocular (l:0.2); postocular with sides slightly rounded, widest at middle, and only slightly convex below. Clypeus strongly widened on posterior half, not conspicuously elevated in lateral aspect. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view extending close to level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.60-1.85. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. Setae of rostrum not examined. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; third segment extending close to but not attaining level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.25:0.60. Pronotum black, its sides not carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated, ridges granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, granulose, with submedian carinae extending backward to slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles prominent, very narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical, blunt apically. Scutellum black, coarsely rugose, its center faintly depressed; posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of eighth urotergite. Corium black; membrane fumose, dark brown, veins yellowish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 8.5 times as long as wide. Abdomen as described for L. costalis.
Linshcosteus chota@Linshcosteus chota, new species Figures 22C; 201-203 Linshcosteus carnifex: Ghauli, 1976, p. 184 (part), figs. 3, 4, 14, 19, 22. Male holotype. Length 17.5 mm; width of pronotum 3.9 mm, of abdomen 6.3 mm Overall color reddish brown (probably faded from dark brown or black). Pilosity short, black. Head with numerous small, low setigerous granules except narrowly along middle ventrally. Head over twice as long as wide (l:0.4) and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7). Anteocular region five times as long as postocular (1:0.2); postocular with sides feebly rounded, widest at middle, very faintly convex below. Clypeus strongly widened on posterior half, unusually elevated in lateral apsect. Genae narrowly tapering apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae narrowly tapering but not pointed apically. Eyes in side view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.6. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of first two antennal segments 1:4.8; remaining not preserved. Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter on first and most of second segment, as long as or longer than diameter at apex of second and on third segment. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of an tenniferous tubercle; second not attaining level of anterior border of eyes, third extending to level of posterior margin of eyes. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.8:0.55. Pronotum with sides carinate. Anterior lobe more strongly convex than in other species; ridges granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, granulose; submedian carinae extending slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles very narrowly rounded. Anterolateral processes conical, narrowly rounded apically. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, its center slightly depressed; posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra leaving apical third of eighth urotergite exposed. Corium dark; membrane fumose, somewhat lighter than corium. Legs uniformly dark, slender; fore femora six times as long as wide. Abdomen as described for L. costalis.
Linshcosteus confumus@Linshcosteus confumus Ghauri Figures 204, 205 linshcosteus confumus Ghauri, 1976, p. 184, figs. 5-8, 15, 16, 20, 23, 25, 26, 28. Length of male 21.8 mm, of female 23.2 mm; width of pronotum of male 4.8-5.0 mm, of female 5 mm; width of abdomen of male 9.0 mm, of female 10.6-10.8 mm Overall color very dark brown or black. Pilosity short, inconspicuous. Head with numerous setiferous granules except on narrow band along middle ventrally. Head very slender, almost three times as long as wide (1:0.35), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.7). Anteocular region approximately four times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.30); postocular with sides faintly rounded, widest behind middle; postocular region only very slightly convex below. Oypeus strongly widened on its posterior half, but not conspicuously elevated in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view closely approaching level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.3-2.5. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of first and second antennal segments ( only one specimen examined for this character) 1:5.2. Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with scattered setae longer than its diameter. Apex of first rostral segment approaching or attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending beyond level of anterior margin of eyes, third segment extending distinctly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 90-2.05:0.55. Pronotum black, sides carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated, ridges granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, wrinkled, granulose; submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical, narrowly tapering but not pointed apically. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, its center only shallowly depressed. Posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra of male extending to middle of seventh urotergite but only to base of seventh urotergite in female. Clavus and corium black. Membrane fumose, dark greyish brown, with faint cloudy dark reddish brown pattern elements; veins of membrane faintly reddish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 6-7 times as long as wide. Venter as described for L. costalis.
Linshcosteus costalis@Linshcosteus costalis Ghauri Figures 206, 207 Linshcosteus costalis Ghauri, 1976, p. 187, figs. 9-12, 17, 18, 21, 24, 29. Length of male 20.5 mm, of female 21.5 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 5.0-5.2 mm; of abdomen of male 8.8-9.0 mm, of female 9.0-11.2 mm Overall color very dark brown to black, with wide band along costal margin and membranal veins, light reddish or yellowish brown. Pilosity short, inconspicuous, except on light-colored portions of corium. Head with numerous setiferous granules except narrowly along middle ventrally. Head over twice as long as wide (1:0.40-0.45) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.80-0.85). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0.25); postocular with sides rounded, widest slightly behind middle; postocular region faintly convex below. Clypeus widened on posterior half, not strongly elevated in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in side view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.60-1.85. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.8-5.3:3. l:? Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of respective segments, only third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes, third not extending beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 9-2.1:0.6. Pronotum black, in some specimens with anterolateral projections, lateral margin and\or submedian carinae tinged with reddish. Sides of pronotum carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated, ridges granulose. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, granulose, submedian carinae extending backward to slightly beyond middle of disc of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, triangular, pointed, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum black, coarsely rugose transversally, its center only faintly depressed; posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra of male falling slightly short of apex of seventh urotergite, those of female extending only slightly beyond base of seventh urotergite. Clavus and corium black, base of corium and costal margin between Sc and R + M and R light reddish or yellowish brown; apex of corium black. Membrane fumose, dark brown, veins yellowish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 6-8 times as long as wide. Venter strongly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes; delicately striate transversally on and near flattened area, irregularly wrinkled on lateral portions of urosternites. Setae short, numerous but not conspicuous. Abdomen very wide, with lateral portions of urotergites amply exposed. Spiracles adjoining connexival sutures. Abdomen dark, irregularly and faintly Clouded with dark reddish brown. Spiracles yellow. Intersegmental sutures, especially on connexivum, narrowly reddish or orange colored.
Linshcosteus kali@Linshcosteus kali, new species Figures SK, L; 15A; 208, 209 DIAGNOSIS: Linshcosteus kali differs from the most similar species, L. confumus and L. costalis, by the conspicuously convex lower surface of the postocular region, from costalis furthermore by its uniformly dark corium, and from confumus by its relatively short rostrum and its larger eyes DESCRIPTION. Length of male 19 mm, of female 20 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 4.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.8-9.0 mm, of female 10 mm Overall color very dark brown or black. Pilosity short and inconspicuous. Head with very numerous setiferous granules, except on narrow strip along middle ventrally. Head over twice as long as wide (1:0.40-0.45) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.7-0.8). Anteocular region three and one-half to four times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.30); postocular with sides faintly rounded, widest behind middle. Postocular region strongly convex below. Oypeus gently widened on posterior half, not strongly elevated in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface, but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.3. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna] segments 1:4.7-5.1:2.7-3.1:2.2-2.4. Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; apex of second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; third segment not extending to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 55-1.85:0.50-0.65. Pronotum black, its sides carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated; ridges granulose. Posterior lobe rugose-granulose; submedian carinae not extending beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subtriangular, pointed. Scutellum black, heavily rugose transversally, its center only faintly depressed. Posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, elongate conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra of male and female falling short of apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus and corium black; membrane fumose, very dark brown; veins yellowish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 6.0-7.5 times as long as wide. Venter as described for L. costalis. DISTRIBUTION: South India: Madras State: Coimbatore, 1400 ft., April 5, 1963, Nov., 1963, Sept., 1966 (P. Susai Nathan; AMNH), one male, holotype, one female, allotype, two males, paratypes, one dissected male; one male, paratype, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro. BIOLOGY: Unknown. 0BSERVA TION: Although the differences from the superficially rather similar L. costalis and L. confumus are slight, they are constant; the type series of kali is uniform for the diagnostic and key characters. ETYMOLOGY: This species is named for the Hindu goddess, Kali. DIPETALOGASTER USINGER Dipetalogaster Usinger, 1939, p. 40; 1944, p. 40. Lent and Jurberg, 1972, p. 465. Triatomini. Large sized (33-42 mm). Body not flattened. Overall color dark. Body surface smooth, not granulose; setae short. Head elongate subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. First and third rostral segments short, second elongate. Third i:ostral segment with double invaginated flasklike rostral organ. Anterior lobe of pronotum with discal tubercles; humeral angles rounded. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Posterior projection of scutellum tubercle-like. Legs strong, elongate. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Abdomen wide, with lateral portions not covered by hemelytra. In both sexes, dorsal connexival plates normal; ventral connexival plates not developed. Wide longitudinally pleated connexival membrane connecting dorsal connexival plates to ventral sclerites. In unfed specimens, anterior portion of urotergites overlapping posterior portion of preceding urotergites; urotergites connected by expandable membrane. Median process of pygophore subrectangular, truncate. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first segment much shorter than second, third with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally without median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum attaining prosternum, slender; third segment with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Dipetalogaster Usinger@Dipetalogaster Usinger, 1939, p. 40; 1944, p. 40. Lent and Jurberg, 1972, p. 465. Triatomini. Large sized (33-42 mm). Body not flattened. Overall color dark. Body surface smooth, not granulose; setae short. Head elongate subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. First and third rostral segments short, second elongate. Third i:ostral segment with double invaginated flasklike rostral organ. Anterior lobe of pronotum with discal tubercles; humeral angles rounded. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Posterior projection of scutellum tubercle-like. Legs strong, elongate. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Abdomen wide, with lateral portions not covered by hemelytra. In both sexes, dorsal connexival plates normal; ventral connexival plates not developed. Wide longitudinally pleated connexival membrane connecting dorsal connexival plates to ventral sclerites. In unfed specimens, anterior portion of urotergites overlapping posterior portion of preceding urotergites; urotergites connected by expandable membrane. Median process of pygophore subrectangular, truncate. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first segment much shorter than second, third with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally without median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; rostrum attaining prosternum, slender; third segment with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Dipetalogaster maximus@Dipetalogaster maximus (Uhler) Figures 6A, D; IOC-E; 12C; 20D, F; 22D; 24P; 27C; 29N; 210, 211 Conorhinus maximus Uhler, 1894, p. 286. Triatoma maxima: Neiva, 1914a, p. 48. Larrousse, 1924b, p. 208, figs. 1, 2. Pinto, 1925a, p. 62, figs. 40, 41. Eutriatoma maxima: Pinto, 1931, p. 92. Dipetalogaster maximus: Usinger, 1939, p. 36; 1944, p. 41, pl. 8, fig.F. Ryckman and Ryckman, 1967a, p. 180, figs. 1-9. Mazzotti, 1970, p. 320. Lent and Jurberg, 1972, p. 466, figs. 1-49. Length of male 33-35 mm, of female 41-42 mm; width of pronotum of male 8 mm, of female 8.5-9.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 12 mm, of female 15-16 mm Overall color from dark brown to black, with reddish stripe along outer edge of connexivum. Body surface highly polished. Setae short and sparse, inconspicuous. Head black, delicately granulose, distinctly rugose dorsally and laterally. Head about twice as long as wide (l:0.5- 0.6) and slightly shorter than pronotum (l:l.05-1.10). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular, the latter very short, with sides conspicuously produced at middle, almost angular. Clypeus slightly widened on posterior half, conspicuousl y elevated in lateral view. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Eyes in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.55-1.70. Ocelli situated close to hind border of head. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at middle of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with approximately seven trichobothria, three closely spaced at and near base, four more widely spaced along entire length of segment . Second segment also with numerous stiff setae from as long to up to twice as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short delicate hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0-3.5:3.5-3.7:2.0-2.25. Third segment invariably longer than second. Rostrum black or dark reddish brown. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of hind border of head. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical, with very short and sparse setae, appearing glabrous, except third segment with numerous hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Rostral organ as shown in figure lOC-E. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.1-2.3:0.65-0.70. Neck laterally with l+ 1 faint reddish spots. Pronotum black, polished. Anterior lobe with irregular protuberances; discal tubercles distinct but low, subhemispherical; lateral carinae with multiple constrictions, but without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe of pronotum prominently elevated at middle, shallowly rugose. Submedian carinae very low, inconspicuous, distinct only on anterior half of posterior lobe of pronotum. Humeri distinctly elevated, rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical, from pointed to blunt. Scutellum coarsely rugose, with center of disc deeply depressed, lateral portions elevated; posterior process short and thick, rounded apically, horizontal or deflected distally, only about half as long as main body of scutellum. Metasternum on posterior half carinate along middle longitudinally. Hemelytra fully developed but falling slightly short of apex of abdomen; those of male extending to middle of urotergite VII, those of female extending at least to base of urotergite VII but not beyond base of urotergite VIII. Legs black, slender, elongate; fore femur 7 .0-7 .5 times as long as wide. Femora apically with 0-2 minute setiferous denticles. Venter convex, faintly flattened longitudinally along middle in both sexes. Urosternites minutely striate transversally , irregularly wrinkled close to lateral border. Spiracles distant from lateral margin of urosternite by several times their diameter . Connexivum as in generic description . Abdomen dark brown or black, with outer half of connexival plates orange or red . Median process of pygophore as shown in figure 22F. Phallus as illustrated ; vesica heavily sclerotized.
Panstrongylus Berg@Panstrongylus Berg, 1879a, p. 268; 1879b, p. 167. Champion, 1899, p. 206. Pinto, 1931, p. 104. Lent and Pifano, 1940, p. 629. Lima, 1940, p. 188. Usinger, 1944, p. 42. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 132. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 379. Mestor Kirkaldy, 1904, p. 280. Usinger, 1944, p. 44. Triatomini. Medium-sized to very large (19-38 mm). Body not conspicuously flattened. Color varied. Setiferous granules absent; setae of adults invariably short, in most cases inconspicuous. Head short and wide, subconical, invariably shorter than pronotum. Antenniferous tubercles situated close to anterior margin of eyes. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prostemum. First rostral article in most cases shorter than second, only in one species subequal; third article the shortest, without rostral organ. Fore lobe of pronotum with or without discal and lateral tubercles. Humeral angles rounded or angular but not spined. Prostemum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar process from elongate cylindrical to very short. Legs with femora in most cases armed with denticles, the latter rarely obsolete. Spongy fossulae present or absent. Abdomen wide, with lateral portions of urotergites covered by hemelytra. Connexivum free, its segments normally developed. Venter of abdomen convex or flattened longitudinally along middle. Median process of pygophore narrowly spinelike. Fifth instar nymph: As described for tribe. Fourth antennal article delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length; first rostral segment shorter than second (except possibly in tupynambai), third without rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus present; antenniferous tubercles situated well behind middle of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally with or without series of median tubercles. First instar nymph: As described for tribe. Rostrum attaining prostemum, stout; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.
Panstrongylus chinai@Panstrongylus chinai (Del Ponte) Figures 240; 26E; 28A; 213-215 Triatoma chinai Del Ponte, 1929, p. 4, fig.2; 1930, p. 868, pl. 43. Panstrongylus chinai: Pinto, 1931, p. 107. Wygodzinsky, 1948, p. 204, fig.4. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 386, figs. 4-28. Length of male 22-27 mm, of female 21-25 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-6.5 mm, of female 5.5-7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7-9 mm, of female 9-10 mm Overall color brownish black to black, many specimens with bluish waxlike pruinosity; small reddish marks on neck, pronotum and connexivum, rarely absent. Head uniformly black, shallowly rugose transversally on entire upper surface. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.60-0.65), and from slightly to distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.05-1.20). Anteocular region more than twice as long as postocular (1:0.35-0.45), postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded and converging posteriorly. Clypeus widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae small, apically curved, pointed. Head flat or slightly convex above in lateral view. Eyes in side view extending below level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.55-2.00. Antenniferous tubercles without apico-external process. First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined stiff setae longer than diameter of segment, some more than twice as long, and also with numerous shorter sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-3.4:1.9- 2.3:1.5-1.8. Rostrum as shown in figure 215A. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of middle of neck. Entire rostrum with very short setae, conspicuous only on dorsal surface of apex of second and on entire third segment, but even there most setae not longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.6-2.0:0.5-0.6. Neck black, with I+ I lateral spots reddish. Pronotum black, with orange-red markings as follows: apex of anterolateral projections, discal tubercles, lateral carinae of fore lobe and 2 + 2 spots along hind border of sclerite, 1 + I on humeral angles and l + 1 at level of submedian carinae. Extension of red markings variable, from v,1ell developed as described above and illustrated in figure 2158 to almost completely absent except faint reddening of humeral area. Anterior lobe of pronotum slightly convex, with ridges distinct, 1 + 1 small but distinct round discal tubercles, lateral tubercles obsolescent. Posterior lobe of pronotum irregularly wrinkled. Submedian carinae approaching or attaining hind border of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded, slightly explanate. Anterolateral projections variable in shape, from subconical to slightly flattened and rounded apically. Scutellum black, posterior process reddish at apex in some individuals. Scutellum transversally rugose; median depression shallow but distinct, not extending onto base of posterior process, the latter approximately two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subhorizontal, subcylindrical, apex rounded and slightly swollen in dorsal view. Hemelytra approaching hind margin of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium and clavus uniformly dark brown or black, membrane fumose, dark brown. Veins of corium frequently shining, thus more conspicuous than those of membrane. Legs uniformly dark brown or black, slender, fore femora 5-7 times as long as wide. Femora with a slight protuberance apically below but without distinct denticles. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female. Urosternites striate transversally; setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles yellowish, close to connexival border, distance equal to their diameter or less. Urosternites II and III fused. Connexivum dark brown or black, with orange-red irregularly shaped spots in posterolateral angle of each connexival plate, spots increasing in size from anterior to posterior segments; spots larger on under than on upper connexival surface in some specimens. MALE GENITALIA: Lateral phallosoma processes large, denticulate apically below; vesica large, semiglobose, heavily sclerotized.
Panstrongylus diasi@Panstrongylus diasi Pinto and Lent Figures 216-218 Panstrongylus diasi Pinto and Lent, 1946, p. 461, figs. 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13, 14, 17. Correa and Carvalho, 1956, p. 80, figs. 1-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 391, figs. 1 (part), 2 (part), 29-47. Length of male 26 mm, of female 27 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5 mm, of female 7.0 mm; width of abdomen of male and female 9.5 mm Overall color yellowish brown, with darkbrown areas on pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly brown, shallowly rugose dorsally along middle, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.60-0.65), and much shorter than pronotum (1:1.3). Anteocular region less than twice as long as postocular (1:0.60-0.65); postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow, widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly tapering apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head not conspicuously elevated between eyes, its surface flat in lateral view. Eyes in side view extending in both sexes below level of ventral surface of head but remote from dorsal. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.3-2.8. Antenniferous tubercles with small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by about one-third of its own length. Second antennal segment with short adpressed bristles, shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of first and second antennal segments 1:2.6-3.1:?:?. Rostrum as shown in figure 218C. First rostral segment extending close to level of anterior margin of eyes, second extending to level of base of neck. First and second rostral segments almost entirely glabrous or with short sparse setae only, third segment with numerous setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.45:0.60-0.65. Pronotum light reddish brown, with the following areas dark brown: center of collar, anterior lobe of pronotum anteriorly at middle behind collar and in longitudinal furrow, posterior lobe with large central longitudinal mark as wide as space separating submedian carinae anteriorly but gradually tapering posteriorly, as well as 1+ 1 sublateral markings in areas between submedian and lateral carinae, these markings most conspicuous and largest anteriorly and posteriorly; posterior margin also dark except on posterolateral angles. Anterior lobe of pronotum moderately convex, its surface even, ridges faint; discal and lateral tubercles absent. Lateral carinae of anterior and posterior lobes almost continuous, not forming a distinct angle. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly but not deeply rugose. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum short and blunt. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process dark or light reddish brown. Scutellum conspicuously rugose, with shallow depression. Posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, narrowly cylindrical, rounded apically. Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen; their color yellowish brown, with large central area of corium dark brown; clavus light brown. Membrane fumose, slightly lighter colored than dark areas of corium. Legs slender, with fore femora about six times as long as wide. Fore femora armed with one pair of strong subapical denticles followed or not by one additional, small denticle, or with one denticle only; mid femora with similar denticles, or unarmed. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae in both sexes. Legs uniformly dark brown. Venter with short inconspicuous setae. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III absent. Venter brownish yellow, darkened laterally. Connexivum yellowish brown, anterior half or third of each connexival plate with black subrectangular spot, adjacent to intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with lateral projections. Lateral endosoma process not denticulate.
Panstrongylus geniculatus@Panstrongylus geniculatus (Latreille) Figures 27 A; 219-221 Reduvius geniculatus Latreille, 1811, p. 225, pl. 15, fig.12 Lamus geniculatus: Stal 1859, p. 116, pl. 6, fig.4 Conorhinus geniculatus: Walker, 1873b, p. 17 Triatoma geniculata: Chagas, 1912, p. 305. Mestor geniculatus: Brindley, 1931, p. 136. Panstrongylus geniculatus: Pinto, 1931, p. 108, figs50, 53, 54. Usinger, 1944, p. 43, pl. 8, fig.B Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 146, figs 287-298. Lent and Jurberg, 1968, p. 499, figs 1-37; 1969a, p. 125, figs. 1-7; 1975, p. 395, figs l (part), 2 (part)Conorrhinus lutulentus Erichson, 1848, p. 614 Conorhinus corticalis Walker, 1873b, p. 17 Lamus corticalis: Lethierry and Severin, 1896, p 115 Triatoma tenuis Neiva, 1914b, p. 37 Triatoma .fluminensis Neiva and Pinto, 1922, p. 403 Panstrongylus parageniculatus Ortiz, 1971, p. 80, pl. 10, fig.B, pl. 11, fig.B, pl. 12, fig.B. Length of male 22-28 mm, of female 22.5-29.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.5-7.0 mm, of female 5.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 7-10 mm, of female 7-12 mm Overall color light brown or light orangebrown, with dark brown or black pattern elements on various body parts. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly light colored, or, in some specimens, dorsum with l + l narrow dark submedian stripes extending from base of jugae to space between ocelli. Dorsal surface of head shallowly rugose. Anterior portion of head conspicuously upturned. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.70-0.75), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (l:l.15-1.30). Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (l:0.45-0.55); postocular with sides straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus only slightly widened posteriorly. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, angular, with incipient hook-shaped process . Head convex above between eyes, in lateral view. Eyes in lateral view extending below level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis l:l.45-1.9. Ocellar tubercles black at base. Antenniferous tubercles dark, with pronounced apicolateral process. Antennae from reddish brown to black. First antennal segment slightly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff inclined setae about as long as diameter of segment, as well as with numerous sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments l:3.0-3.7:2.35- 2.80:2.5-2.7. Rostrum dark brown. First rostral segment approaching or extending to or slightly beyond level of anterior margin of eyes; second rostral segment attaining level of middle of neck. First and under surface of second rostral segment with very short inconspicuous setae; upper surface of second and entire third segment with hairs about as long as diameter of respective segment. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.0-1.3:0.45-0.55. Pronotum light orangebrown. Collar with or without dark area. Anterior lobe of pronotum with central black marking in shape of four leaf clover, and l + 1 lateral black markings in shape of interrupted H; in some specimens short dark marking extending from base of H onto posterior lobe. Posterior lobe with black band along posterior margin except at humeral area, this band parallel sided or with anterior projections. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas low, faintly rugose. Discal and lateral tubercles from small to obsolescent. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose; submedian carinae in most specimens evanescent on posterior half of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum shortly subconical, rounded apically. Scutellum and its process black, sublateral callosities limiting shallow median depression orange-yellow; apex of process in some specimens light colored. Process large, as long as or slightly longer than main body of scutellum, narrowly cylindrical, horizontal, its apex rounded and in some specimens slightly deflected. Pleura and sterna of general body color, with dark markings. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes; their overall color light brown or light yellowish brown, with veins, especially those of membrane, conspicuously darker. Corium as light as or slightly lighter than membrane, dark at extreme apex. In some specimens, corium and membrane mottled with small dark spots. Legs with fore femur about five and one-half times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2-6 (most frequently 4) small subapical denticles arranged in two rows . Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae in both sexes, those of males larger, about as long as diameter of article, those of females not more than half as long as diameter of tibia apically. Coxae and trochantera light yellow or orange-yellow. Femora and tibiae dark brown or black, femora with short, orange apical annulus, in many specimens a similar though shorter annulus on base of tibiae. Apex of tibiae in some specimens also with short reddish annulus. Venter convex, not flattened distinctly on disc; urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, sparse, inconspicuous. Spiracles close to connexival suture, distant from the latter by not more than their own diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III obsolescent . Overall color of abdomen light orangebrown, with pattern formed by large median and smaller sublateral and lateral spots as shown in figures 2198; 22IE . Connexivum light yellowish brown with black subrectangular marks on anterior third of dorsal connexival plates, of varied shape, frequently indented posteriorly. Dark markings on ventral portion of connexivum larger than on dorsal surface. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica without conspicuous lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes wide, subapically below with field of small denticles.
Panstrongylus guentheri@Panstrongylus guentheri Berg Figures 6L; 22F; 222-224 Panstrongylus giintheri Berg, 1879a, p. 269; 1879b, p. 168. Pinto, 1931, p. llO. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 140, figs. 274-286. Panstrongylus guentheri: Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 171. Wygodzinsky, 1949, p. 337. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1%8, p. 33, figs. 8, 9. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 396, fig.l (part), 2 (part). Triatoma guentheri: Neiva, 1914a, p. 6. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 875, pl. 46. Triatoma larroussei Pinto, 1925b, p. 454, figs. I, 2. Panstrongylus larroussei: Pinto, 1931, p. 112, figs. 57, 60. Pinto and Lent, 1946, p. 459, figs. 3, 4, 7, 8, ll, 12, 15, 16, 18, 19. Triatoma seai Del Ponte, 1929, p. 7, fig.3; 1930, p. 900, pl. 52. Panstrongylus seai: Pinto, 1931, p. ll9; Mazza and Jorg, 1937, p. 40, figs. 6-8. Length of male 22-25 mm, of female 24-27 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 6-7 mm; width of abdomen of male 8.5-9.5 mm, of female 9.5-10.0 mm Overall color reddish or orange-brown, with dark brown areas on pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly orange-brown, very shallowly rugose dorsally along middle, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.6-0.7), and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.4-l.5). Anteocular region slightly less than twice as long as postocular (l:0.55-0.65); postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded. Clypeus narrow, widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head strongly elevated between eyes dorsally. Eyes in lateral view comparatively small, remote from level of upper surface of head; eyes of male extending ventrally below level of under surface of head, but those of female not quite attaining level of under surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis (only males examined) 1:2.10-2.65. Ocelli surrounded by ring of dark pigment. Antenniferous tubercles as shown in fig.224A, with small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark reddish brown. First antennal segment unusually long, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by close to one-half of its own length. Second antennal segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.2:2.2-2.5:?. Rostrum as shown in figure 2248, its first segment attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; second segment extending to level of base of neck. First and under surface of second rostral segments practically glabrous; upper surface of second and entire third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.55-1. 70:0.55-0. 70. Pronotum with anterior lobe light reddish brown, posterior lobe from uniformly light reddish brown to entirely dark brown, in some specimens dark color less extensive, with area of lateral margin and submedian carinae lighter. Anterior lobe conspicuously convex; elevated areas low, irregularly rugose; discal tubercles obsolescent, lateral tubercles absent. Lateral carinae of anterior and posterior lobes forming distinct angle. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly rugose transversally. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior half or third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum prominent, from narrowly conical to blunt. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process light brown in some specimens, conspicuously rugose, with shallow median depression. Posterior scutellar process as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, narrowly cylindrical, rounded apically. Hemelytra extending close to apex of seventh urotergite. Color of corium dark brown except subtriangular light spot at base; adjacent areas of clavus also lighter brown. Membrane somewhat lighter than dark portion of corium, fumose. Legs with fore femur approximately five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two rows of three to five conspicuous denticles each, extending over half the length of femur. Additional small denticles irregularly arranged near base of femur. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid legs of male, in female very small and distinct only on fore tibia. Legs uniformly reddish or orange-brown. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by about three times their diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III obsolescent. Venter reddish brown, irregularly darkened at sides and in some specimens on genital region. Connexivum orange brown; anterior half or third of each connexival plate with dark brown or black irregularly shaped subrectangular spot, adjacent to intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Phallus as shown in figure 22F. Vesica with lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes large, not denticulate.
Panstrongylus herreri@Panstrongylus herreri Wygodzinsky Figures 225, 226 Panstrongylus herreri Wygodzinsky, 1948, p. 198, figs. l-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 401, figs. l (part), 2 (part), 78-110. Length of male 20.5-22.0 mm, of female 23.0-27.5 mm; width of pronotum of male 5.3-6.2 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 6.8-7 .0 mm, of female 8.2-10.0 mm Overall color light brownish yellow dorsally, dark brown or black ventrally. Markings of dorsal surface complex , from dark brown to black, present on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Legs black with yellow markings. Body surface with very short, inconspicuous golden setae. Head light brownish yellow, including genae and antenniferous tubercles; bucculae and entire under surface of head black. Dorsally, a narrow black stripe longitudinally along middle, extending from level of middle of clypeus to that of hind border of eyes, conspicuously widened shortly before middle. Surface of head faintly rugose above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.6-0.7), slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.10-1.15). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides faintly rounded, strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with curved, apically tapering projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes above, dorsal surface almost straight in lateral view. Eyes in side view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head, in lateral view. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.6-1.8 (in males), 1:2.0 (in females), viz., eyes of males larger than those of females. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second segment black. First antennal segment approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.32.5:2.1-2.5:2.1. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. First and most of second segment with very short, inconspicuous setae, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.4:0.45-0.55. Neck with 1+ 1 dark spots dorsally. Pronotum with posterior lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brownish yellow, with narrow longitudinal markings on posterior lobe as shown in figure 226B. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas slightly uneven, with 1 + 1 comparatively small discal tubercles, followed or not by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal tubercles; l+ 1 additional, sublateral tubercles invariably present, situated between posterior submedian and lateral tubercles. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe of pronotum coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Submedian carinae attaining posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles salient, narrowly rounded, slightly explanate. Collar of general body color, with 1+ l dark areas at center, and slightly darkened at base of anterolateral projections, the latter tongueshaped, compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum black, with light brown or yellowish median longitudinal stripe including entire posterior process, and light again at sides. Median depression of scutellum narrow, shallow, faintly rugose, remainder of disc of scutellum flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum very short, about one-third as long as main body of scutellum, only slightly elevated at base, its apex knobbed. Pleura extensively black, with yellowish spots. Stema black. Hemelytra closely approaching tip of abdomen, light yellowish brown or yellow, with complex dark brown and black pattern elements as illustrated in figure 225. Base of membranal cells dark velvet brown or sooty black. Legs with fore femora 5.0-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of both sexes with well-developed spongy fossulae, those of male very slightly longer than those of female. Coxae and basal half of trochantera black; apex of trochantera, and base and apex of femora yellow. Remaining portion of femora and tibiae entirely black. Venter convex, flattened longitudinally along middle, more strongly so in female than in male. Urosternites delicately striate transversally, with short, inconspicuous setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between FIG. 226. Panstrongylus herreri. A. Head, dorsal view. B. Pronotum. C. Scutellum. D. Head and anterior portion of thorax, side view. urostemites II and III well developed. Urosternites black; spiracles included in small yellow spots. Connexivum yellow or light yellowish brown. Each connexival segment dorsally at anterolateral comer, adjacent to intersegmental suture, with wedge-shaped mark from one-third to one-half as long but less than half as wide as segment. Ventral connexival segments as above or with transverse black marking adjacent to anterior intersegmental suture, extending over entire width of connexival plate. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes denticulate on entire apical portion.
Panstrongylus howardi@Panstrongylus howardi (Neiva) Figures 227-229 Triatoma howardi Neiva, 1911b, p. 240. Panstrongylus howardi: Pinto, 1931, p. Ill. Lent, 1960, p. 164, figs. 1-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 404, figs. 101-115. Male (female unknown). Length 25-29 mm, width of pronotum 6.0-6.5 mm, of abdomen 8.5-11.0 mm Overall color dark brown or black, with reddish or yellowish areas on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and abdomen with connexivum. Body surface with very short setae. Head entirely black, coarsely rugose on entire dorsal surface including clypeus. Head from one and one-half times to almost twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.55-0.70), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (l:l.15-1.25). Anteocular region slightly over twice as long as postocular (l:0.40-0.45), postocular short and wide, with sides converging toward behind. Clypeus slightly widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not quite extending to level of apex of clypeus. Jugae small, pointed, hooklike. Head almost flat above in lateral view, not strongly elevated. Eyes large, in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.0-1.35. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined stiff setae up to twice as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.0- 3.5:2.5:2.0. Rostrum comparatively stout. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of middle of neck. First and most of second rostral segment with very short and inconspicuous setae, apex of second segment dorsally and entire third segment with hairs as Jong as diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.40-1.55:0.50. Pronotum black; orange-red on anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of anterior Jobe and lateral carinae with lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe with l + l submedian triangular spots enclosing posterior two-thirds of submedian carinae, as well as I+ I large lateral markings, including humeral area and region immediately anterior to it but without attaining, or only narrowly attaining, transverse furrow of pronotum. Anterior lobe of pronotum slightly convex, elevated areas not prominent. Discal tubercles well developed, rounded; lateral tubercles distinct although smaller than discal ones. Posterior lobe irregularly wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to posterior margin of sclerite. Humeral angles broadly rounded, slightly explanate. Anterolateral projections of pronotum prominent, subconical, rounded apically. Scutellum black, strongly rugose, its depression shallow, not extending to base of posterior process. Process dark at base, reddish on apical half, about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subhorizontal, almost cylindrical, slightly compressed laterally and with apex very faintly swollen, rounded. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, their overall color pale yellowish brown, extreme base of corium and spot close to apex dark, cu-pcu cross-vein with short adjacent portions of other veins conspicuously darkened; apical two-thirds or three-fourths of membranal cells with some adjacent areas also darker brown. Legs uniformly black, slender, fore femora seven times as long as wide. Femora with slight subapical protuberance but without denticles. Minute spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae (probably absent in female). Venter convex, almost imperceptibly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally; setae short, inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their own diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III faint. Venter of abdomen black, lateral portion of urostemites light yellowish or reddish brown, light portion forming continuous band. Connexivum light reddish brown, each segment anteriorly with subrectangular black spot adjacent to intersegmental suture; spots occupying from one-third to one-half of total length of respective segment, extending over entire width of sclerite on under surface, but anterolaterally situated on dorsal connexival segments. GENITALIA: Endosoma processes narrow, denticulate apically. Vesica large, semiglobose, heavily sclerotized.
Panstrongylus humeralis@Panstrongylus humeralis (Usinger) Figures 230, 231 Mestor humeralis Usinger, 1939, p. 38; 1944, p. 46, pl. 8, fig.cPanstrongylus humeralis: Lent and Pifano, 1940, p 631. Lent, 1943b, p. 492, figs. 7-9. Lent and Jurberg, 1974, p. 409, figs. 1 (part), 2 (part), 116-138. Length of male 27.0-27.5 mm, of female 30-32 mm; width of pronotum of male 8 mm, of female 9 mm; width of abdomen of male 9-10 mm, of female 11.5-12.0 mm Overall color light brown dorsally and dark brown or black below. Markings of dorsal surface complex, dark brown or black, present on head, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Overall color of legs ferrugineous. Body surface with short, goldencolored setae, most distinct on head. Head light brown, with dark markings as follows: a median stripe extending from level of jugae to level of anterior margin of ocelli, stripe wide anteriorly, narrowed toward behind; antenniferous tubercles, genae, bucculae, base of ocelliferous tubercles and entire under surface of head. Integument of head faintly rugose and punctuate above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.70-0.75), and much shorter than pronotum (1:1.35-1.45). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35); postocular with sides rounded, strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with conspicuous slightly curved spinelike projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes dorsally. Eyes large, in side view surpassing level of under surface of head in both sexes but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1.7-2.0 (1:1.75-1.85 in males, 1:1.85-2.0 in females), viz., eyes of females slightly smaller than those of males. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second articles black. First antennal segment almost attaining level of apex of clypeus; second with stiff setae as long as diameter of segment, and, mostly on under surface, with numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4-2.8:2.25-2.65: 1.8-2.1. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of middle of neck. First and most of second segment only with very short inconspicuous hairs, somewhat longer setae on apex of second segment; third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.20-1.25:0.4-0.5. Pronotum with hind lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brown with narrow longitudinal markings. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas faintly granulose, with 1 + 1 large although not high discal tubercles, followed posteriorly by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal ones. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Humeral angles salient, rounded, narrowly explanate. Collar of general body color, with faint dark spot at center and I+ l small markings at base of anterolateral processes, the latter large, elongate subtriangular, flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum light yellowish brown, with median dark longitudinal marking, basally as wide as central depression, almost linear apically, extending to dorsum of posterior process to close to its apex. Median impression of scutellum shallow, rugose; lateral portions of scutellum wide and flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum short, half or less than half as long as body of scutellum, conspicuously humped at base, apical portion slightly widened, rounded, elevated in lateral view. Pleura light colored, acetabula and sutures between sclerites dark. Stema dark. Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of abdomen, light brown, with complex dark brown or black pattern elements on corium and membrane, as illustrated ; base of membranal cells conspicuously sooty black. Legs with coxae black; trochantera yellow, remaining segments rust colored. Femora with subapical annulus black, base of femora adjacent to trochanter yellow. Tibiae with basal and apical annulus black. Femora of first and second pair with I+ l subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae with well developed spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Venter convex, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, sparse, inconspicuous. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between urostemites II and Ill well developed. Urosternites dark brown or black; spiracles contrastingly yellow. Connexivum light orangebrown; each segment anteriorly with short black marking adjacent to intersegmental suture; posterior margin of dark spots deeply emarginate on upper connexival plates, straight across or oblique on ventral connexival plates. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes with denticles on entire apical portion.
Panstrongylus lenti@Panstrongylus lenti Galvao and Palma Figures 232, 233 Panstrongylus lenti Galviio and Palma, 1968, p. 403, figs. 1-4. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 409. figs. 139-148. Female (only specimen known). Length 19 mm; width of pronotum 5 mm; of abdomen 7.5 mm Overall color very light reddish brown, with dark markings on pronotum, hemelytra, pleura and abdomen with connexivum. Head light yellowish brown, very faintly rugose transversally on dorsum along middle, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.65) and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2). Anteocular region slightly less than twice as long as postocular (1:0.55), postocular short and wide, with sides slightly convex, converging toward behind. Oypeus widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head not conspicuously elevated above. Eyes in lateral view exceeding level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2. Antenniferous tubercles with small but distinct apicolateral process. First antennal segment reddish brown, falling short of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. Rostrum as shown in figure 233C. First rostral segment attaining level of anterior margin of eyes, second extending to level of center of neck. First and second rostral segments almost glabrous, third with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.1:0.5. Pronotum of general body color; hind lobe with entire area between submedian carinae and lateral borders, and inner portion of areas between submedian carinae and lateral borders dark brown. Anterior lobe convex, elevated areas low. Discal tubercles small but distinct, rounded, subconical in side view. Lateral tubercles obsolete. Posterior lobe of pronotum distinctly and irregularly wrinkled. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum well developed, subconical. Scutellum with process dark brown, rugose, central depression well developed, extending onto base of posterior process. Process elongate, as long as main body of scutellum, subhorizontal, narrowly cylindrical, rounded at apex. Pleura and sterna of general color, posterior margin of propleura darkened. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium and clavus pale yellow, except cell adjoining clavus and extreme apex of corium which are brown. Membrane brown, fumose, base of membranal cells and closely adjacent areas darker brown. Legs uniformly light yellowish brown. Fore femora five times as long as wide. Apical half of fore femora with three pairs of small denticles. Spongy fossulae absent. Mid legs not preserved. Abdominal venter shortly pilose. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by approximately three times their own diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III obsolescent. Abdomen of general body color. Urosternites IIIVI each with 1 + 1 conspicuous black sub lateral spots . Dorsal connexival plates III and IV with very small blackish spots near anterior border.
Panstrongylus lignarius@Panstrongylus lignarius (Walker) Figures 29M; 32A; 234-236 Conorhinus lignarius Walker, 1873b, p. 17. Eratyrus lignarius: Lethierry and Severin, 1896, p. 117. Conorrhinus lignarius: Champion, 1899, p. 206. Lamus lignarius: Distant, 1902, p. 191. Triatoma lignarius: Neiva, 19lld, p. 461. Panstrongylus lignarius: Pinto, 1931, p. 116. Lent, 1943b, p. 486, figs. 1-6. Deane and Damasceno, 1950, p. 809, figs. 1, 2. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 411, figs. l (part), 2 (part), 149-169. Mestor lignarius: Usinger, 1939, p. 39. Length of male 25-26 mm, of female 30-31 mm; width of pronotum of male 7.0-7.5 mm, of female 8.0-8.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 8-9 mm, of female 11-12 mm Overall color light brown dorsally; ferrugineous, dark brown or black ventrally. Markings of dorsal surface complex, from dark brown to black, present on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Legs ferrugineous or black, with yellow markings. Body surface with very short inconspicuous golden setae. Head light brown, including part or all of genae and antenniferous tubercles; bucculae and entire under surface of head black; dorsally, a faded dark stripe of irregular shape longitudinally along middle, extending from level of jugae to that of ocelli. Surface of head faintly rugose above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.70-0.75) and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.3-1.4). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular, the latter with sides faintly rounded, strongly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with curved pointed projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes above, dorsal surface almost straight in lateral view. Eyes large in both sexes, in lateral view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.6. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second segments black. First antennal segment approaching level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.4- 2.7:2.4-2.7:1.7-2.0. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of neck. First and most of second segment with very short, inconspicuous setae, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.4:0.3-0.5. Pronotum with posterior lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brown, with narrow longitudinal markings. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas faintly granulose, with 1 + 1 comparatively small discal tubercles, followed or not by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal tubercles; 1+ 1 additional, sublateral tubercles invariably present, situated between posterior submedian and lateral tubercles. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Submedian carinae short, not attaining posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles salient, from rounded to subangular. Humeri elevated, humeral angles narrowly explanate. Collar of general body color, faintly darkened submedially and again, more intensely so, at base of anterolateral projections, the latter large, narrowly conical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, narrowly tapering at apex. Scutellum black, with light brown or yellowish median longitudinal stripe including entire posterior process, and again at sides of sclerite. Median depression of scutellum narrow, shallow, faintly rugose; remainder of disc of scutellum flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum very short, one-half to one-third as long as main body of scutellum, only slightly elevated at base, its apex knobbed. Neck with 1 + 1 dark spots dorsally. Pleura light reddish brown, with sutures between sclerites and parts of the latter dark. Stema dark. Hemelytra closely approaching apex of abdomen, light brown, with complex dark brown or black pattern elements as illustrated in figures 234, 235. Base of membranal cells conspicuously sooty black. Legs with fore femora 4.3-5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of both sexes with well developed spongy fossulae, those of male slightly larger than those of females. Coxae and basal half of trochanter black; apex of trochantera, base and apex of femora, and subbasal annulus of tibiae, yellowish. Remaining portion of femora from rust-colored to black; tibia black. Venter convex, flattened longitudinally along middle, more distinctly so in female than in male. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between urostemites II and III well developed. Urosternites from dark rust-colored to black; spiracles included in small yellow spot. Connexivum yellow or light yellowish brown. Each connexival segment dorsally at anterolateral comer adjacent to intersegmental suture with wedge-shaped black mark from one-third to one-half as long but less than half as wide as segment. Ventrally, connexival segments with transverse black marking adjacent to anterior intersegmental suture extending over entire width of segment and about one-third as long as latter. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes with denticles on entire apical portion.
Panstrongylus Lutzi@Panstrongylus Lutzi (Neiva and Pinto) Figures 61; 237-239 Triatoma Lutzi Neiva and Pinto, l923c, p. 74. Pinto, l925a, p. 55, figs. 37, 38. PanstrongyLus Lutzi: Pinto, 1931, p. ll6, fig.51. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, figs. 170-194. Length of male 24.0-28.5 mm, of female 28-29 mm; width of pronotum of male 6.5-8.0 mm, of female 7.5-8.0 mm; width of abdomen of male 8-11 mm, of female 10.5-11.5 mm Overall color yellowish brown, with dark brown markings on head, pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly dark yellowish brown, antenniferous tubercles dark brown, shallowly rugose dorsally along middle, otherwise smooth. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.7), and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.3-l.5). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.50-0.55); postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded and covered from above by large, laterally protruding ocelli. Clypeus widened posteriorly. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head strongly elevated above, in lateral view. Eyes in side view remote from level of upper but projecting below level of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.0-2.8. Antenniferous tubercles very short, with small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark reddish brown. First antennal segment extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by one-third of its own length; second segment with inclined stiff setae and numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.9-3.3:2.2-2.4:1.95-2.0. Rostrum as shown in figure 2398; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second segment extending to level of base of neck. First and most of second antenna} segment with very short inconspicuous hairs, appearing almost glabrous; apex of second and entire third rostral segment with hairs twice as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.2-1.3:0.50-0.55. Overall color of pronotum yellowish brown, the following areas from dark to black: center of collar, surface of fore lobe except discal tubercles and lateral carinae, three longitudinal markings on posterior lobe, viz., one median mark, widest anteriorly and abruptly narrowed on posterior half, attaining posterior margin or pronotum or not, and 1 + 1 sublateral markings between submedian and lateral carinae, the latter two marks variable in size, from covering only one-third of length of posterior lobe to as long as hind lobe. Posterior margin of pronotum narrowly darkened. Anterior lobe of pronotum convex; ridges low, inconspicuous; discal tubercles large, rounded; lateral tubercles much smaller than discal ones, mere elevations of lateral carinae. Lateral margins of anterior and posterior lobe of pronotum forming conspicuous angle, pronotum strongly constricted at level of transverse furrow. Posterior lobe of pronotum rugose transversally. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum about as large as discal tubercles, from conical to rounded. Scutellum dark brown, with posterior process in some specimens lighter brown. Scutellum conspicuously rugose, central excavation shallow, elongate, in some specimens extending to base of scutellar process. Posterior scutellar process as long as main body of sclerite, subhorizontal, slender cylindrical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium yellowish brown, at center with large, irregularly shaped dark brown spot; apex of corium equally dark brown. Membrane almost as dark as dark portion of corium, fumose. Legs with fore femur approximately five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with numerous denticles , arranged in two rows on apical twothirds, irregularly arranged near base of article, progressively increasing in size from base to apex of femora. Fore and mid tibiae with very small spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Legs uniformly reddish brown, faintly darker on apex. Venter convex in both sexes. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short and sparse. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III shallow. Venter yellowish or reddish brown. Connexivum yellowish brown, anterior third of half of each connexival segment with dark brown or black irregularly subrectangular spot adjacent to intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica small. Lateral endosoma processes short, free portion denticulate.
Panstrongylus megistus@Panstrongylus megistus (Burmeister) Figures 241; 29A-C; 30E; 240-242 Conorhinus megistus Burmeister, 1835, p. 246 Neiva, 1910, p. 206. Patton and Cragg, 1913, p 492, pl. 59, fig.2 wmus megistus: Stal, 1859, p. 115 Triatoma megistus: Neiva, 1911b, p. 239 Panstrongylus megistus: Pinto, 1931, p. 117, figs. 31, 58, 59. Lent and Jurberg, 1968, p. 510, figs 38-58; 1975, p. 425, figs. I (part), 2 (part)Mestor megistus: Usinger, 1944, p. 13 Triatoma megista: Neiva, 1911a, p. 421. Pinto, 1925, p. 39, figs. 20-31. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 882 pl 48Conorhinus gigas Burmeister, 1861, p. 320 (nee Fabricius) Conorhinus porrigens Walker, 1873b, p. 19. Neiva, 1914, p. 12 Triatoma wernickei Del Ponte, 1923, p. 66; 1925, p 29, pl. I, fig.A Triatoma megista var. Wernickei: Del Ponte, 1930, p. 883, pl. 49, fig.I Triatoma africana Neiva, 1911b, p. 239 Panstrongylus africanus Pinto, 1931, p. 106. Length of male 26-34 mm, of female 29-38 mm; width of pronotum of male 7-10 mm, of female 8-10 mm; width of abdomen of male 11-13 mm, of female 12-14 mm Overall color black, with red or light reddish brown markings on neck, pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface with short, sparse, inconspicuous setae. Head black, shallowly rugose transversally and slightly punctate above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.75-0.85), and much shorter than pronotum (1:1.3-1.5). Anteocular region from two to three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.45); postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded, strongly convergent toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae terminating with prominent, pointed free projection . Head very strongly elevated on posterior half. Eyes large, in side view considerably surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Eyes of males larger than those of females; ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.25-1.35 in males, 1:1.55-1.80 in females. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral projection. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment with inclined stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.8-3.3:2.2-2.5: 1.4-1.8. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles or, rarely, of anterior margin of eyes; second segment extending to level of middle of neck. First rostral segment appearing glabrous; second with distinct setae, about half as long as diameter of segment, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments l:1.10-1.25:0.40-0.55. Pronotum with anterior lobe entirely black, rarely with I+ I small reddish marks between dorsal tubercles and collar, or with tubercles reddish; posterior lobe black, with 2+2 large red markings on posterior half or third, viz., I+ 1 submedian spots as a continuation of submedian carinae, and 1 + 1 lateral spots occupying humeri and adjacent areas; in some cases, markings expanded posteriorly and connected, thus entire posterior margin of sclerite red. Anterior lobe convex, smooth, with elevated areas almost imperceptible; discal tubercles in most specimens large, subconical, with apex narrowly pointed but not spinelike; lateral tubercles well developed, similar to discal tubercles, as large as or smaller than latter. Posterior lobe rugose transversally. Submedian carinae low, not extending to posterior half of lobe. Humeral angles narrowly rounded or angular, reflexed, explanate. Anterolateral projections elongate conical. Scutellum with lateral portions smooth; median depression extremely shallow, slightly rugose transversally, reddish, the red color continuing onto posterior process. Scutellar process short, from one-third to onehalf as long as main body of sclerite, subconical, subhorizontal, rounded apically in dorsal and truncate with upper portion elevated, in lateral view . Hemelytra extending close to apex of abdomen. Corium and membrane black; corium with red spots at base and subapically. Base of clavus light colored. Veins of corium and extreme base of membrane margined with yellow to varied degree. Legs black, with fore femora 4.5-6.0 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with subapical pair of small denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened at center longitudinally in female. Urosternites delicately striate transversally; setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about their own diameter. Suture between second and third urostemite well developed. Venter black. Connexivum black; connexival plates with transversal red markings on posterior fourth dorsally and on posterior third ventrally. Light portion of ventral connexival segments extending in some specimens shortly onto urosternites. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with lateral projections; entire lateral endosoma processes covered by denticles.
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus (Champion) Figures 81, J; lOA; 12B; 14A, B; 243-245 Lamus rufotuberculatus Champion, 1899, p. 210, pl. 12, figs. 27, 27a. Triatoma rufotuberculata: Neiva, 1914a, p. 61. Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus: Pinto, 1931, p. 118. Lent and Pifano, 1940, p. 634, figs. 1-2. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 426, figs. I (part), 2 (part), 195-217. Mestor rufotuberculatus: Usinger, 1939, p. 40; 1944, p. 45, pl. 8, fig.D. Triatoma coxo-rufa Campos, 1932, p. 3. Length of male 24-27 mm, of female 25-28 mm; width of pronotum of male and female 6-7 mm, of abdomen of male 8-9 mm, of female 9-IO mm Overall color dark brown or black, with light yellowish brown or red markings on head, neck, thorax, legs, and abdomen; hemelytra tinged with pale green, their markings dark brown. Integument of dorsal body surface with conspicuous golden colored adpressed setae, many scalelike . Head blackish, including antenniferous tubercles, genae, bucculae, and entire under surface of head. Clypeus reddish, black only at base; dorsal surface of head with elongate reddish mark extending longitudinally along center, approximately Y-shaped, bifurcate anteriorly, extending from level of jugae to interocellar space. Head short and wide, its surface rugose and punctate; ratio length of head to width across eyes 1:0.65-0.80. Head from slightly to considerably shorter than pronotum (l:l.15- 1.45). Anteocular region three to four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.35); postocular with sides rounded, strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus distinctly widened posteriorly, bilobed apically in many specimens . Genae tapering distally, falling short of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt. Posterior portion of head much higher than anterior, slightly convex above in lateral view. Eyes large in most specimens, in lateral view surpassing level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.30-1.85; very rarely male, 1:2.3, female 1:3.3. Antenniferous tubercles with obsolescent apicolateral setiferous process. Antennae with first and second articles black. First antennal article slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Second article with inclined stiff setae slightly longer than diameter of article, as well as with numerous short sensory hairs on under surface of article. Ratio of antenna( segments 1:3.0-3.5:2.2-2.8:1.9-2.3. Rostrum with first and second articles black, thirddark reddish brown. First article attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second ex- tending to level of neck. First rostral article with short, sparse setae, second and third with numerous long hairs, those on third segment longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1. 9-2.2:0.6-0. 7. Overall color of pronotum dark brown to black. Anterior lobe black, with anterolateral projections and discal and lateral tubercles red. Posterior lobe with part of submedian carinae, explanate portion of humeral angles and l + l small spots posterior to termination of submedian carinae, red; one large central spot adjacent to hind margin and l + l sublateral spots on disc of humeri, yellowish or orange red. Anterior lobe slightly convex, smooth, its ridges with numerous adpressed golden colored setae; l + l semiglobose discal and l + l smaller, subconical lateral tubercles present. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose. Submedian carinae extending over three-fourths of length of posterior lobe. Humeral angles salient, from narrowly rounded to subangular, narrowly explanate. Anterolateral projections strongly compressed dorsoventrally, subrectangular, their apex obliquely truncate, anterolaterally and slightly upwardly directed. Sterna and pleura dark, acetabula reddish. Scutellum black, posterior process apically or entirely red. Carinae limiting central depression red or black. Central depression narrow, strongly rugose transversally, rugosities extending onto base of posterior process. Lateral portion of scutellum smooth. Posterior process shorter than main body of scutellum, subconical, horizontal, not elevated at base, its apex rounded, suboval or subglobose. Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Color of hemelytra light brown, conspicuously tinged with pale green. Corium streaked with brown mostly along veins; membrane dotted with dark, outer membranal cell with compact dark area subbasally. Legs stout, fore femora 3.8-4. 7 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with three or four short denticles, rarely only two, in some specimens up to three minute accessory ones. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Overall color of legs dark brown or black, femora dorsally with longitudinal red stripes of varied extension and with red apical annulus. Venter convex, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, in both sexes. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter golden colored, numerous, slender, inclinate, well perceptible. Spiracles either adjoining connexival suture or distant from latter by not more than their own diameter. Suture between urosternites II and III normally developed. Urosternites dark brown to black; spiracles enclosed in small yellow spot. Connexivum spotted with light and dark, the light portions orange or rust-red and yellow. Each connexival segment with subrectangular dark spot at center, adjoining outer margin of segment, dorsally distant from, ventrally adjoining connexival suture. Connexival plates anteriorly with dark transversal band adjoining intersegmental suture , in some cases widened near connexival suture .and\or connected to median spot along outer connexival margin . MALE GENITALIA: Endosoma processes present in two pairs, those of proximal pair delicately denticulate apically.
Panstrongylus tupynambai@Panstrongylus tupynambai Lent Figures 246-248 Panstrongylus tupynambai Lent, 1942, p. 227, figs. 31-33. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 432, figs. 218-239. Length of male 22 mm, of female 25 mm; width of pronotum of male 5 mm, of female 6 mm; width of abdomen of male 7.5 mm, of female 9 mm Overall color light reddish brown, with dark brown areas on pronotum, corium and connexivum. Body surface with short, sparse hairs, appearing glabrous. Head uniformly dark brown, neck reddish brown. Head shallowly rugose along middle above, otherwise smooth, polished. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.60- 0. 75), and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.1-1.2). Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (1:0.45-0.60), postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded but obscured from above by protruding ocelli. Clypeus widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head strongly elevated dorsally, highest at level of ocelli. Eyes in side view extending below level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. In dorsal view, eyes of male larger than those of female . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.0 in male, 1:2.9-3.2 in female. Antenniferous tubercles with very small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with inclined stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment as well as with numerous dedicate short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3:2.3:1.9. Rostrum as shown in figure 2480, E; first segment as long as or slightly longer than second, extending beyond level of anterior margin of eyes; second segment attaining level of center of neck. First and second rostral segments with very short inconspicuous setae, thus appearing glabrous under low magnification; third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:0.9-1.0:0.4. Pronotum with collar and anterior lobe reddish brown or dark brown. Posterior lobe reddish brown, with central dark brown marking on anterior half of space between submedian carinae; 1 + 1 wide dark markings on spaces between submedian and lateral carinae, extending from transversal sulcus to posterior margin of sclerite. Posterior margin of pronotum narrowly dark. Anterior lobe convex, with low elevated areas. Discal tubercles distinct but not large, rounded; lateral tubercles smaller, mere elevations of lateral carinae. Lateral markings of anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum forming slight but distinct angle. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral processes of pronotum short, rounded. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process dark or light brown. Scutellum heavily rugose; median depression well developed. Posterior scutellar process almost as long as main body of scutellum, slightly elevated, slender cylindrical, narrowly rounded apically. Hemelytra of male extending to apex of abdomen, but only to middle of seventh urotergite in female . Corium dark reddish brown, light reddish brown at base and narrowly along margin, as well as an irregular reddish spot subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell. Apex of corium almost black. Membrane uniformly dark brown, fumose. Legs uniformly reddish brown. Fore femora 5.5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of subapical denticles, and 0-2 smaller denticles further basad . Males with very small spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae, absent in females. Venter with short, inconspicuous setae. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by two or three times their own diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III obsolescent. Venter dark reddish brown. Connexivum reddish brown; anterior half or third of each connexival segment with black, subrectangular spot adjoining intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA: Vesica with l+l lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes denticulate apically.
Paratriatoma Barber@Paratriatoma Barber, 1938, p. 104, Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 62. Usinger, 1944, p. 47. Ryckman, 1971, p. 88. Lent and Jurberg, 1971, p. 39. Triatoma (laratriatoma) Lima, 1940, p. 188. Triatomini. Small insects (12.5-14.5 mm). Body not flattened. Body and appendages covered with numerous elongate, declinate or semierect, minutely spinose black setae. Head elongate subconical or ovoid, strongly convex above. Antenniferous tubercles situated behind middle of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. First rostral segment much shorter than second but longer than third; third without rostral organ. Fore lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles. Humeral angles rounded. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Scutellar spine narrowly subcylindrical. Legs with femora unarmed; spongy fossulae absent. Abdomen narrow. Venter convex, slightly flattened along middle longitudinally. Lateral portions of urosternites overlapping mesial portion of connexival segments, the latter connected to margin of urosternites by expandable membrane. Median process of pygophore narrowly triangular, pointed. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface delicately granulose. Body, antennae, and legs with very long erect or decumbent minutely spinulose setae; genae not projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus; eyes situated laterally behind middle of head; fourth antennal segment not or only slightly longer than any of the preceding; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present; fore and mid femora slightly incrassate, with a few small setiferous tubercles subapically but without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along midline. First instar nymph: Head, thorax, and abdomen uniformly pigmented, without conspicuous markings and not mottled; setae very elongate, spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; mesonotum in shape of transversal band, only very slightly longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates more than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; hind tarsi apically without specialized hairs; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows.
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber Figures 6F; SF; 22G; 25B, C, E, G, J; 26D; 249, 250 Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber, 1938, p. 104. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 78, figs. 19, 20. Usinger, 1944, p. 48, pl. l, fig.K, pl. 7, fig.C. Lent and Jurberg, 1971, p. 40, figs. 1-23. Paratriatoma hirsuta hirsuta Ryckman, 1967, p. 3; 1971, p. 88, figs. l, 2, 7. Paratriatoma hirsuta kamiensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 90, figs. 3, 8. Paratriatoma hirsuta papagoensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 91, fig.4. Paratriatoma hirsuta yumanensis Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 92, figs. 6, 9, 10. Paratriatoma hirsuta pimae Ryckman, 1967, p. 2; 1971, p. 92, fig.5. Length of male 12.0-13.5 mm, of female 12.5-14.5 mm; width of thorax of male 3.0 mm, of female 3.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 3.5 mm, of female 5.0 mm Overall color pattern consisting of various shades of brown , from light yellow brown to dark brownish black; in dark specimens corium and legs distinctly lighter. Body integument polished. Entire insect with numerous long, dark, adpressed, decumbent or erect setae , except on urotergites and membrane of hemelytra. Head , rugose transversally along middle, with long forwardly inclined setae. Shape of head as shown in illustrations, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5-0.6), and about as long as pronotum (1:0.9-1.1). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.5-0.6); postocular with sides straight or convex, in many specimens widest behind middle. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, unusually wide on posterior half, limited posteriorly by transverse impression. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae short, inconspicuous. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining levels of under and upper surface of head, more distant from latter than from former. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.7-3.7. Ocelliferous elevations poorly developed. Antenniferous tubercles inserted near anterior margin of eyes. First article of antennae attaining level of apex of clypeus. Second article with numerous stiff, inclined setae slightly longer than diameter of article . Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5-2.9:2.6-3.0:1.3-1.9. Rostrum subcylindrical, with long setae on all articles. First article attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles; second extending to level of posterior border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.3-1.6:0.5-0. 7. Pronotum with anterior lobe slightly convex, without discal or lateral tubercles. Ridges beset with long setae. Posterior lobe rugose transversally, with submedian carinae obsolescent, distinctly perceptible only on anterior third of posterior lobe of pronotum. Humeri rounded. Long posteriorly directed setae scattered over sclerite. Anterolateral projections small, rounded or subconical. Scutellum coarsely rugose, in many cases darker than pronotum; median impression shallow but in most specimens distinct, limited by 1 + 1 distinct narrow carinae. Posterior process of scutellum varied in length, from as long as, to only half as long as, main body of sclerite. Process subcylindrical, horizontal, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male, extending to seventh or base of eighth urotergite in female. Corium darker than membrane, covered with numerous long setae. Legs short , fore femur 4.3-4.8 times as long as wide. Femora without denticles; spongy fossulae absent. Legs with numerous long adpressed or decumbent setae; femora additionally on under surf ace with long setae perpendicular to longitudinal axis of article . Abdomen convex below, distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle, more strongly so in female. Urosternites faintly striate transversally in central portion, irregularly wrinkled on lateral half of each side; microsculpture difficult to make out due to highly polished, reflective integument. Spiracles distant from lateral border of urostemites by several times their diameter. Connexivum wide dorsally , visible portion of ventral connexival plates narrow . Phallus as shown in figure 22G.
RHODNIINI PINTO@RHODNIINI PINTO Rhodniini Pinto, 1926a, p. 490. Psammolestiini (sic) Carcavallo, 1976, p. 348 (nomen nudum). Small- to medium-sized Triatominae of not more than 26 mm, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally or not. Body surface from smooth to moderately rugose, with very short bristles only. Head not strongly convex above. Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection. Antennae inserted near apex of head. Genae from slightly to considerably surpassing apex of clypeus, the latter slightly but distinctly widened apically. Ocelli situated posterolaterally behind eyes, in most cases inserted on conspicuous elevations behind interocular sulcus, the latter not fully developed. Head laterally behind eyes with callosities beset with setiferous tubercles. Second antennal segment with 4-6 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, and two ancillary trichobothria laterad of base of main row. Remaining setae of second antennal segment of uniform size. Anterolateral comers of scutellum each with small, polished mammiform process. Corium with veins distinct. Abdomen with urostemites covering part or all of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. MALE GENITALIA: Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge well developed. Basal plate struts transformed into short, platelike, curved or convoluted structures. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma large, subsemielliptical. Vesica not strongly sclerotized. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface rugosegranulose, with short simple spinulose setae; head not strongly convex above; genae slightly surpassing apex of clypeus; eyes situated well behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles without conspicuous apicolateral process; fourth antenna} segment shorter than some of the preceding; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present; femora subcylindrical or incrassate and compressed, but without denticles, trichobothria absent; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle. First instar nymph: Head, thorax, and legs mottled with light and dark, in addition to other markings; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second, and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; metanotum longer at middle than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates larger than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; hind tarsi apically without specialized hairs; setae of urotergites irregularly scattered. Eggs laid in masses or singly.
Rhodnius Stal@Rhodnius Stal, 1859, p. 104. Lent, 1948a, p. 298. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 487. Triatominae from 11 to 26 mm long; their general color light brown or straw-colored, with brown or blackish, occasionally reddish brown markings, scattered or in large spots and stripes; rarely black with reddish markings. Setae very short, inconspicuous. Head slender and elongate, subcylindrical, from two to three times as long as wide across eyes, in most cases longer than pronotum. Head granulose at sides before and behind eyes, its dorsal surface with a narrow median longitudinal ridge. Anteocular region in most species at least three times as long as postocular; postocular not more than twice as long as wide. Postocular callosities present but not prominent. Clypeus narrow, parallel-sided but widened at apex. Genae situated below level of clypeus, slightly surpassing the latter apically. Jugae inconspicuous, not salient. Postocular furrow shallow, interrupted, distinct only on lateral portions. Eyes from medium-sized to large. Ocelli well developed, inserted on small lateral protuberances, their distance slightly larger than dorsal interocular distance. Antenniferous tubercles short, insertion of antennae situated near apex of head. Antennae with first segment unusually short, attaining level of apex of clypeus; second article at least four and onehalf times as long as first, third slightly shorter than second (except in brethesi where third is longer than second), fourth shorter than the two preceding. Second article with five or six trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, their distance progressively larger toward apex of article, and with two ancillary trichobothria laterad of basal trichobothrium of main row. Rostrum attammg prostemum, slender, subcylindrical, slightly flattened dorsoventrally. First and third rostral segments very short, second about four times as long as first or third, only rarely (R. paraensis) slightly less than three times as long as first. Pronotum with sides carinate. Fore lobe simple; hind lobe granulose and rugose. Anterolateral angles shortly projecting, rounded or angular apically. Humeral angles rounded. I+ 1 submedian carinae extending from anterior border of fore lobe to posterior margin of posterior lobe. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, with depressed area at center; apical process short, subcylindrical, rounded apically. Prostemal groove narrow, with well-developed stridulatory sulcus. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen. Veins normally developed, included in most species in light-colored bands. Corium with short inconspicuous setae. Hind wing as in Triatoma, viz., with hamus extending to wing base, without apical cell, and secondary vein simple. Legs long and slender, with scattered short setae. Femora from parallel-sided to fusiform, without spines or tubercles. Tibiae of first and second pairs of legs with short spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Abdomen convex below, in some cases center of urostemites slightly flattened. Connexivum wide dorsally, ventral portion partially or entirely covered by stemite, in former case much narrower than dorsal portion. Spiracles distant from lateral border of urostemite. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with median process pointed, blunt, bifurcate or subrectangular. Articulatory apparatus with basal bridge well developed. Basal plate struts transformed into two short, basally connected convolute structures. Genitalia of female truncate, eighth and ninth tergites subvertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; head elongate, subcylindrical; antennae inserted at anterior third or fourth of anteocular region; lateral postocular callosities difficult to perceive; stridulatory sulcus more than twice as long as wide; femora from subcylindrical to fusiform. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; head elongate, anteocular region longer than wide. Eggs adhering to substrate, light colored, with subpolar constriction; operculum convex; chorion and operculum reticulate.
Rhodnius brethes@Rhodnius brethesi Matta Figures 91; 251-253 Rhodnius brethesi Matta, 1919a, p. 94, pl. 3, fig I; 1919b, p. 104. Lent, 1948a, p. 319, figs. 29-31. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 500, figs. I, 12, 31-44. Length of male 19.0-19.5 mm, of female 19-20 mm Maximum width of pronotum 4.0-4.5 mm, in both sexes; maximum width of abdomen 5-6 mm, in both sexes. General color black, with light brown spots and stripes on dorsal surface of head and neck, on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, connexivum, and ventral surface of abdomen. Head granulose, black, with narrow dorsal longitudinal stripe yellowish. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0.45-0.50) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0. 75-0.80). Anteocular region between three and four times as long as postocular (l:0.25-0.30). Eyes large, attaining level of under and in lateral view attaining or closely approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.60- 0.85. Antennae black; ratio of antennal segments 1:4.5-5.5:6.0-7 .3:3. 9-4.1. First segment of rostrum attaining level of insertion of antennae, second extending beyond level of ocelli; third short. Ratio of rostral segments l:3.6-3.9:0.9-1.0. Neck black, with lightcolored stripe longitudinally along center. Pronotum black, with l+I submedian longitudinal light brown stripes extending from collar over submedian carinae to hind border of pronotum; stripes thus dividing pronotum into three black areas. Lateral borders of pronotum margined with light brown, from the somewhat pointed anterolateral angles to humeri. Scutellum black, with l + l basally unusually wide light brown carinae meeting at base of posterior process, with light color continuing on process. Legs entirely black. Hemelytra dark brown to blackish on corium and membrane, with veins included in prominent light brown bands. Legs uniformly dark brown, slender; fore femora about six times as long as wide. Connexivum with ventral portion narrowly visible, black dorsally and ventrally, each segment with orange or reddish rectangular spot on posterior half. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore finger-like, elongate subcylindrical, apically rounded .
Rhodnius dalessandroi@Rhodnius dalessandroi Carcavallo and Barreto Rhodnius brethesi D Alessandro, Barreto and Duarte, 1971, p. 162 (misidentification). Rhodnius dalessandroi Carcavallo and Barreto, 1976, p. 177, figs. 1-4. The published description and illustrations of this Rhodnius are not sufficient to recognize it. We have not examined this species in detail, and have not been able to include dalessandroi in our key.
Rhodnius domesticus@Rhodnius domesticus Neiva and Pinto Figures 254-256 Rhodnius domesticus Neiva and Pinto, 1923a, p. 22. Pinto, 1925a, p. 79, figs. 52, 53. Larrousse, 1927, p. 82, fig.7. Lent, 1948a, p. 323, figs. 32-37. Galvao, Mello, Ferreira and Leal, 1962,p. 57. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 505, figs. 2, 13, 45-61. Length of male 15-17 mm, of female 16.5-18.0 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 4 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.0 mm, of female 6-7 mm General color light orange-brown, with dark brown markings on several areas of body and appendages. Head dark, with dorsum narrowly light-colored longitudinally, about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and as long as or only slightly longer than pronotum (1:0. 95:1.0). Anteocular region from two and one-half to three times as long as postocular (l:0.3-0.4). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.3-1.5. Antennae with second article brown, turning black toward apex; third article with basal half black and apical half whitish or yellow; fourth yellow, its tip dark. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.7-5.8:3.5-4.0:2.3-2.5. Second rostral segment reaching neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:2.8-3.0:l.O. Neck light colored dorsally, with l + l submedian black stripes. Pronotum with submedian carinae and lateral ridges bright yellow. General color of fore lobe reddish brown. Submedian carinae with l + I mediad directed lightcolored projections; space between carinae and lateral margin with complex shaped light-colored areas. Anterolateral angles light colored, not prominent. Scutellum black; l+ 1 lightcolored carinae, shortly bifurcate at anterior extremity, meeting before base of posterior process, the latter light colored above. Hemelytra pale, with corium reddish brown and membrane faintly pigmented. Legs with coxae, trochantera, and femora uniformly dark brown; tibiae light brown with dark apical annulus. Legs slender; fore femora about five times as long as wide. Connexivum only very narrowly visible from below. Connexival segments dorsally with reddish brown spot on anterior half, spot emarginated posteriorly or with short pointed posterior projection. MALE GENITALIA: Median pygophore process large, lamellate, subquadrate .
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@Rhodnius ecuadoriensis Lent and Le6n Figures 257, 258 Rhodnius ecuadoriensis Lent and Le6n, 1958, p. 181, figs. 1-4. Lumbreras, 1960, p. 216, fig.3. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 510, figs. 3, 14, 62-73. Rhodnius pallescens Cornejo, 1958, p. 418, fig.(nee Barber). Length of male 12.5-13.5 mm, of female 14.5 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 2.5-3.0 mm, of female 2.8-3.2 mm, maximum width of abdomen of male 3.8-4.2, of female 4.8-5.2 mm General color light brown with dark brown markings on body and appendages, in form of stripes or small irregularly shaped spots, the latter especially conspicuous on legs. Head granulose, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.5), and only little longer than pronotum (1:0.90-0.95). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.40-0.45). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.3-1.4. Second antennal segment light brown on basal three-fifths, slightly speckled with darker; apical two-fifths dark brown. Third segment darker on basal than on apical half. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.0- 5.5:4.0:2.7-3.l. Rostrum as shown in figure 2588; second segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of ocelli but not attaining neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.0-3.1:0.9. Neck light colored dorsally, dark at sides. Pronotum with anterior lobe granulose and posterior lobe granulose-rugose. Hind lobe light brown. Submedian carinae and lateral margins yellowish. Spaces between submedian carinae and between carinae and lateral margins speckled with dark spots forming two darkish, poorly defined stripes in each space mentioned. Anterolateral angles of pronotum not proininent. Scutellum with 2+2 distinct anterior light-colored carinae, fused into 1 + 1 at level of center of scutellum and into a single carina posteriorly, with light color extending onto upper surface of posterior process. Hemelytra straw colored including veins; spaces between veins with irregularly shaped dark stripes and spots, dotted with lighter. Legs light yellowish brown, mottled with dark brown, most conspicuously so on femora, comparatively stout, fore femora four and one-half times as long as wide. Abdomen light yellowish brown ventrally, irregularly mottled with dark brown. Connexivum narrowly visible from below. Dorsal connexival segments with faint dark brown spot on anterior third or half, also visible from below. Genitalia of male with median process of pygophore shortly triangular, its apex pointed .
Rhodnius nasutus@Rhodnius nasutus StAl Figures 259-261 Rhodnius nasutus StAI, 1859, p. 105. Lent, 1948a, p. 312, figs. 19-21. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 514, figs. 4, 15, 74-91. Rhodnius brumpti Pinto, 1925a, p. 76, figs. 47-51. Larrousse, 1927, p. 84, fig.8. Length of male 12.5-16.5 mm, of female 14-18 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 2.5-3.5 mm, of female 3.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 3.5-5.0 mm, of female 4-6 mm General color pale yellowish brown, frequently tinged with reddish, with faint darker brown spots on some regions of body and appendages. Head about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.35-0.40), distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.6-0. 7). Anteocular region slightly over three times as long as postocular (1:0.3). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.2-1.3. Antennae reddish brown with apex of second and apical half of third articles darker; ratio of antennal segments 1:6.2-7.0:3.2:2.5. Rostrum as shown in figure 2618; second segment attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:3.4-3.7:0.9-1.0. Neck light colored above, dark at sides. Pronotum with anterior lobe granulose and posterior lobe granulose-rugose, the latter with area between submedian carinae dark, faintly subdivided by median light-colored stripe; the 1 + 1 areas between submedian carinae and lateral border with dark stripes confluent, forming uniform dark area. Anterolateral processes of pronotum distinctly angular. Scutellum dark, with 1+ 1 light-colored carinae, shortly bifurcate anteriorly, fused posteriorly and continuing on to posterior process which is light colored above and dark at sides. Hemelytra light reddish brown, with veins narrowly pale yellow; veins of cells and apical extracellular space suffused with lighter color at center. Legs uniformly light reddish brown, slender, fore femora six times as long as wide. Abdomen yellowish brown, almost without spots. Connexivum narrowly visible from below, dorsally with not very prominent darker spots on anterolateral angle of each segment ; these spots in some cases with pointed posterior projection, or of washed-out appearance. Genitalia of male with median process of pygophore relatively short, wide at base, narrowly rounded apically.
Rhodnius neglectus@Rhodnius neglectus Lent Figures 262-264 Rhodnius sp. Correa and Lima, 1954, p. 267, figs. I, 2, 5-9, 11, 12, 19. Rhodnius neglectus Lent, 1954, p. 239, figs. 5, 7, 9, 12. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 519, figs. 5, 16, 92-109. Length of male 17 .5-19.0 mm, of female 18.5-20.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.0-6.5 mm, of female 6.0-7.5 mm General color light brown, with dark brown markings on head, pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum, and yellowish areas on abdomen ventrally, on connexivum and on coxae and trochantera. Head faintly granulose, about three times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.35-0.40), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.75-0.80). Anteocular region over three times as long as postocular (1:0.25-0.30). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.95-1.20. First and second articles of antennae dark, third dark on basal and light colored on apical half, fourth dark on basal and apical fourths. Ratio of antennal segments 1:6.4-8.5:3.4-4.0:2.5-3.1. Rostrum as shown in figure 2648; second segment attaining neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.3-3.7:0.8-0.9. Neck light colored dorsally, dark at sides. Pronotum with anterior lobe almost entirely smooth, posterior lobe rugose- granulose. Submedian carinae extending from collar to hind border of pronotum, light yellowish brown; lateral margins of pronotum also light yellowish brown, light-colored border wider on hind than on fore lobe. Dark area between submedian carinae of hind lobe with light colored percurrent median longitudinal stripe; dark areas between submedian carinae and lateral margin interrupted by light-colored short stripe posteriorly, dark areas confluent on anterior two-thirds. Anterolateral angles of pronotum prominent, forwardly produced . Scutellum with 2+ 2 short but distinct anterior light-colored carinae, fused into l + 1 carinae at level of anterior third of scutellum and into a single carina posteriorly, with light color extending over entire dorsal surface of posterior process. Hemelytra dark brown, with veins lighter colored. Legs dark brown; coxae, trochantera, and short basal annulus of tibiae yellowish. Legs slender, approximately six times as long as wide. Abdomen with under surface of general brown color, but center of anterior urostemites yellow, thus wide percurrent yellow band extending along center of venter, in many cases extending onto metasternum. Connexivum narrowly visible from below, dorsally with anterior half or two-thirds brown, the remainder yellow. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore shortly subtriangular, wide at base, pointed apically .
Rhodnius neivai@Rhodnius neivai Lent Figures 24C, Q; 265-267 Rhodnius neivai Lent, 1953a, p. 170, figs. 1-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 525, figs. 6, 17, 110-127. Length of male 17-18 mm, of female 20-21 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 3.5-4.0 mm, of female 4.0-4.5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.0 mm, of female 6.0-6.5 mm General color uniformly dark brown or blackish; rostrum, antennae, and ventral surface of abdomen reddish brown; second to fifth or sixth connexival segments dorsally and ventrally with small, irregularly shaped spot on posterolateral angles. Head granulose, two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0.4), and much longer than pronotum (1:0.75-0.80). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (l:0.3). Eyes comparatively small, in lateral view not quite attaining level of lower and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.8-2.0. Ratio of antennal segments 1:6.0-6.5:4.5-5.0:0.3. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second extending slightly beyond level of ocelli but not reaching neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3.4-3.7:0.9-1.0. Pronotum without special features, uniformly dark. Anterior lobe granulose, with glabrous areas; posterior lobe rugose. Anterolateral angles blunt, not prominent. Scutellum with posterior process short, strongly tapering apically. Hemelytra falling considerably short of apex of abdomen, not extending much beyond base and at most reaching middle of seventh urotergite. Legs uniformly blackish, slender, fore femora approximately six times as long as wide. Abdomen with connexival segments narrowly visible ventrally. Dorsal connexival segments as described above . Genitalia of male with median process of pygophore simple, narrowly triangular.
Rhodnius pallescens@Rhodnius pallescens Barber Figures 268-270 Rhodnius pallescens Barber, 1932, p. 514, fig.I. Usinger, 1944, p. 35, pl. 7, fig.F. Lent, 1948a, p. 330, figs. 42-47. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 530, figs. 7, 18, 128-141. Rhodnius dunni Pinto, 1932, p. 324. Length of male 21.5, of female 22.0-23.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.5 mm, of female 4.5-5.0 mm, of abdomen of male 7 mm, of female 6.5-7.0 mm General color yellowish brown with dark brown spots, in many cases dotted with lighter. Head light colored longitudinally on dorsum, about two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.35-0.40), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.80- 0.85). Anteocular region slightly more than three times as long as postocular (1:0.30). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.15-1.30. Antennae of general body color, second article black on apical third or half, in some specimens third article darkened at base. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5.9-6.6:4.6-5.3:3.1-3.5. Rostrum as shown in figure 2708; ratio of rostral segments 1:3.7-4.6:0.9-1.2. Neck light-colored dorsally, with 1 + l sublateral very dark stripes. Pronotum with anterior lobe slightly granulose, with irregularly shaped dark spots; posterior lobe rugose and granulose, overall aspect of hind lobe mottled. Scutellum dark, with 2+2 yellowish carinae on anterior portion, fused into 1 + I at level of center of scutellum, and into a single carina posteriorly, light color extending onto dorsal surface of scutellar process. In some cases, submedian carinae fused to form a single wide median longitudinal elevation. Hemelytra straw-colored, clouded with darker, some of the dark areas dotted with lighter color. Legs with femora and tibiae irregularly speckled with light and dark, slender, fore femora approximately seven and one-half times as long as wide. Abdomen light brown. Connexivum light yellowish brown, anterior half of each segment with rectangular dark spot, this spot in some cases lighter at center. Ventral visible portion of connexivum very narrow, patterned as dorsal portion. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore narrowly triangular .
Rhodnius paraensis@Rhodnius paraensis Sherlock, Guitton and Miles Figures 271, 272 Rhodnius paraensis Sherlock, Guitton and Miles, 1977, p. 71, figs. 1-11. Length of male 10.5-11.0 mm, of female 10.8-12.0 mm; width of pronotum of male 2.8 mm, of female 3.0 mm; width of abdomen of male and female 4 mm Overall color light brown, with very dark brown markings on body and appendages; hemelytra almost entirely dark . Head granulose, especially so on sides; its color light brown, with anteclypeus, genae, antenniferous tubercles, ocelliferous tubercles, lateral surface except behind eyes and entire under surface, dark brown, almost black. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0.55) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region less than twice as long as postocular (1:0.65). In lateral view, eyes attaining level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.55. First antennal segment yellowish brown; second and basal three-fifths of third black, apical portion of third whitish; fourth white with short basal annulus dark. Antennal segments comparatively stout and short; ratio of segments 1:4.0:3.6:3.3. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.7:0.9. Neck black, yellowish brown at center and laterally. Pronotum with anterior lobe feebly granulose, posterior lobe distinctly, irregularly rugose. Pronotum dark brown, with lateral margins, 1 + 1 elongate longitudinal stripes enclosing submedian carinae and extending to hind border, as well as an elongate cuneiform longitudinal mark at center of hind lobe, yellowish brown. Anterolateral angles of pronotum not prominent . Scutellum with 1 + 1 distinct anterior light-colored carinae fused posteriorly into a single carina; light color extending along entire posterior process. Hemelytra dark brown; narrowly yellowish brown at base. Legs light yellowish brown, with coxae, one large basal and one large apical annulus on femora, apical fourfifths of fore tibia, and one large submedian and one large apical annulus on mid and hind tibiae, dark brown. Tarsi dark. Legs comparatively short and stout; femora fusiform; fore femora slightly less than three and one-half times as long as wide. Abdomen yellowish brown ventrally, irregularly clouded with dark. Connexivum narrowly visible from below. Dorsal and ventral connexival segments dark brown on anterior three-fifths and contrastingly light yellow on posterior two fifths . MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore wide, bifid .
Rhodnius pictipes@Rhodnius pictipes Stal Figures 5A, C; 6K; 91; IOF; 273-275 Rhodnius pictipes Stal, 1872, p. llO. Larrousse, 1927, p. 81, fig.5. Lent, 1948a, p. 314, figs. 22-28. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 535, figs. 8, 19, 142-158. Conorhinus limosus Walker, l873b, p. 18 (pro parte) Rhodnius amazonicus Almeida, Santos and Sposina, 1973, p. 43, figs. l-8 (new synonymy). Length of male 15-20 mm, of female 16.5-22.0 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male and female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5-7 mm, of female 5.5-8.0 mm General color yellowish brown, with dark brown spots on various body regions and appendages; overall aspect mottled . Head granulose, about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.40-0.45), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.95). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0.30-0.35). Eyes large, in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:0.80-0.85. Antennae with second article yellow on basal and black on apical half; third article yellow with dark subbasal annulus. Ratio of antennal segments l:5.9-6.3:3.9-4.7:2.6-3.1. Rostrum as shown in figure 2758; second segment attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:3. 9-4.5:0. 9-1.2. Neck light-colored dorsally, with I+ I dark sublateral stripes. Pronotum with posterior lobe granulose-rugose; basic color dark brown or black, with granules light colored; overall aspect mottled. Median longitudinal stripe, 1 + 1 submedian carinae and lateral borders yellowish; dark area between carinae and lateral border in many cases with irregular median recurrent stripe yellowish. Scutellum with 2+2 distinct basal light-colored carinae, fused into 1 + 1 at central portion of scutellum and into a single carina posteriorly, with light color extending to upper surface of scutellar process. Hemelytra straw-colored; corium with numerous irregular small dark spots; membrane rugose; intracellular and extracellular areas dark, with central faintly lighter colored confluent spots. Legs yellowish. Coxae, trochantera, and especially femora spotted and mottled with dark brown, dark pigment forming irregular network on femora. Tibiae yellowish, with blackish brown annulus on basal third and on apex. Legs slender, femora approximately six times as long as wide. Abdomen light yellowish brown, areolate, with dark brown spots. Dorsal surface of connexivum yellow; anterior half of each segment bearing rectangular dark spot with light-colored center; each dark spot with posterior border drawn out into narrow point approaching posterior border of tergite; visible ventral portion of connexival segments only with simple rectangular spot. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore wide, deeply emarginated, bispinose .
Rhodnius prolixus@Rhodnius prolixus Stal Figures 9K; 12E; 14F; 238; 290; 3lC, D; 276-278 Rhodnius prolixus Stal, 1859, p. 104, pl. 6, fig.III. Brumpt, 1913, p. 633, figs. 433, 434. Larrousse, 1927, p. 79, fig.4. Usinger, 1944, p. 36, pl. 7, fig.E. Lent, 1948a, p. 304, figs. 2-18. Gamboa, 1963, p. 18. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 540, figs. 9, 10, 20, 159-206. Ramfrez Perez, 1969, p. 11. Conorhinus limosus Walker, 1873b, p. 18 (pro parte). Length of male 17.5-20.0 mm, of female 19.5-21.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.0-4.5 mm, of female 4-5 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 5.5-6.0 mm, of female 6-7 mm General color light yellowish brown, with dark brown markings on various regions of body and appendages. Head dark yellowish brown, granulose at sides; dorsally with narrow light-colored percurrent stripe extending from clypeus to neck, this region not granulose but shortly setose, rest of dorsal surface of head dark, only faintly granulose. Head about two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.45), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Anteocular region approximately three, rarely up to four times as long as postocular (l:0.20-0.35). Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.0-1.5. Antennae dark, with apical three-fifths of third article, and fourth article entirely except tip, whitish. Ratio of antennal segments l:5.0-6.8:3.7-4.8:2.7-2.9. Rostrum as shown in figure 2788. Second rostral segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of ocelli but not extending to neck. Ratio of rostral segments l:3.2-4.0:0.8-1.0. Pronotum with submedian carinae and lateral margins light yellowish brown. Posterior lobe with two dark brown, distinctly separated longitudinal stripes between submedian carinae and on each side between submedian carinae and lateral margin. Anterolateral angles of pronotum not very prominent. Scutellum dark, with I+ I light yellowish brown carinae, somewhat widened anteriorly and fused at base of scutellar process, the latter light colored above. Hemelytra with veins narrowly margined with pale yellow, remainder of hemelytron dark brown, uniform on corium, brown areas on membrane observable with diffuse illumination. Legs uniformly brownish ; femora in some instances darker on certain areas; tibiae darker at apex, slender, about six times as long as wide. Ventral surface of abdomen in many specimens rather uniformly dark brown, in some individuals yellowish with dark markings, much as in robustus. Connexivum narrowly visible from below, or completely covered by urosternites. Connexival segments dorsally yellowish brown, each with elongate dark brown spot in anterolateral area, in many cases extending far backward, with pigment becoming attenuated and hind border of spot of irregular shape, but in no case attaining posterior border of segment; spots also visible ventrally. Phallus as shown in figure 238; struts in figure 278E. Median process of pygophore narrow, pointed apically .
Rhodnius robustus@Rhodnius robustus Larrousse Figures 279-281 Rhodnius robustus Larrousse, 1927, p. 85, fig.9. Lent, 1948a, p. 327, figs. 38-41. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 550, figs. 11, 21, 207-219. Length of male 20.0-23.5 mm, of female 23-26 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 4.5-5.0 mm, of female 5-6 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 6-7 mm, of female 6.0-7.5 mm General color yellowish brown, with very dark brown markings on various regions of body and appendages. Head very dark brown, granulose laterally and ventrally; dorsally with narrow light-colored median longitudinal stripe extending from clypeus to neck. Head two and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.70-0.80). Anteocular region approximately four times as long as postocular (1:0.25). Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0.75-1.00. Antennae with second article uniformly blackish brown, third light yellow except dark brown basal fourth; fourth article light colored. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:7 .6-10.2:5.4-6.3:3 .4-4.4. Rostrum as shown in figure 281A; second segment extending beyond level of ocelli, almost attaining neck; ratio of rostral segments 1:4.1-4.4:0.9-1.0. Pronotum as inprolixus, but anterolateral angles less prominent . Scutellum as in prolixus. Hemelytra dark brown, veins very conspicuously although narrowly bordered with light color; space between veins uniformly dark on corium, suffused with light on membrane. Legs with coxae and trochantera partially or entirely dark; femora reddish brown, tibiae of identical color or yellowish brown, darker at apex. Legs slender, fore femora about seven times as long as wide. Abdomen in some specimens rather uniformly dark brown ventrally, but in most brown speckled with yellow; longitudinal percurrent dark line along center, widened slightly at middle of each segment; venter also on each segment with 1 + 1 submedian oblique and 1 + 1 sublateral longitudinal marks. Connexivum narrowly visible from below or completely covered by urostemites; dorsally light yellowish brown, each segment with large brownish black spot occupying at least anterior half of each segment, with posterior narrowly pointed projection. MALE GENITALIA: Median process of pygophore narrow, pointed apically . Basal plate struts as shown in figure 281E.
Psammolestes Bergroth@Psammolestes Bergroth, 1911, p. 144. Lima, 1934, p. 1155. Lent, 1935, p. 384. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 151. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 349. Small, short bodied, somewhat dorsoventrally compressed Triatominae, 12-15 mm long; general color light yellowish brown, with diffuse darker markings. Setae very short, inconspicuous. Head compressed dorsoventrally, short, only slightly longer than wide across eyes, and shorter than pronotum. Anteocular region from two to three times as long as postocular; postocular very short, from one fourth to onethird as long as wide. Callosities behind eyes strongly developed, beset with setiferous tubercles. Clypeus short, parallel-sided or slightly widened apically. Posterior portion of genae situated below level of clypeus; genae slightly or distinctly surpassing clypeus. Jugae inconspicuous. Postocular furrow obsolete, distinct only as sulcus near hind border of eyes. Eyes medium sized. Ocelli well developed, inserted on protuberances behind above-mentioned sulcus, their distance slightly larger than dorsal interocular distance. Antenniferous tubercles short; antennal insertion closer to apex of head than to anterior margin of eyes. First antenna} segment extremely short, second the longest, third as long as or slightly shorter than second, fourth shorter than the two preceding. Second article with 4+4 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, and two ancillary trichobothria laterad of basal one of main row. Rostrum strongly flattened dorsoventrally, first and third segments short, subequal, second segment twice as long as first. Apical segment rounded and centrally emarginate distally. Pronotum with sides carinate; its surface smooth, without tubercles or granules. Humeral angles rounded. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, slightly depressed anteriorly at center. Apical process short and stout, distinctly tapering distally. Prosternal groove wide, with well developed stridulatory sulcus. Mesosternum bigibbous. Hemelytra attaining or almost attaining apex of abdomen; their veins normally developed. Hind wings much as in Triatoma, but secondary vein strongly curved. Legs short, stout without spines or tubercles. Femora and tibia laterally compressed, the femora very conspicuously so. Femora grooved longitudinally for reception of tibiae. Tibiae of first and second pairs with short spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Abdomen convex below, small central area on each urosternite somewhat flattened. Connexivum wide dorsally, ventral portion partially covered by urosternites. Spiracles distant from lateral border of urosternites. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short median spinelike process, pointed or rounded apically. Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge well developed. Pedicel about as long as wide. Basal plate struts transformed into short curved or convoluted structures. Genitalia of female truncate, last tergites subvertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; head short and wide; antennae inserted close to middle of anteocular region; lateral postocular callosities prominent; stridulatory sulcus less than twice as long as wide; femora incrassate, compressed laterally. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; head short, anteocular region approximately as long as wide. Eggs agglutinate, dark, with subapical constriction; operculum flattened; chorion and operculum punctured, without hexagonal pattern.
Psammolestes arthuri@Psammolestes arthuri (Pinto) Figures 58; 9H; IOG; 248, G, S; 29P; 31A, 8; 282-284Eutriatoma arthuri Pinto, 1926b, p. 86 Psammolestes arthuri: Pinto and Lent, 1935, p. 333, figs. l, 3, 4. Torrealba, 1937, p. 31. Pifano, 1938, p. 241, figs. 1-5. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 366, figs. 3, 6 9, 12, 15, 61-78. Length of male 11-13 mm, of female 12-14 mm Width of pronotum of male 3.0-3.5, of female 3.2-4.0 mm, width of abdomen of male 4-5 mm, of female 4.5-5.5 mm General color pale straw yellow with scattered brownish spots, setae short, golden colored, Integument shining, appearing varnished. Head distinctly longer than wide (1:0.80-0.85) and as long as or shorter than pronotum (1:0.95-1.15), dorsally with wide longitudinal percurrent yellowish stripe occupying entire dorsal interocular space, tapering anteriorly and posteriorly, covering clypeus as well as interocellar space and center of neck. Lateral portions of neck dark. Anteocular region almost three times as long as postocular (1:0.35-0.40). Clypeus parallelsided; genae parallel, inconspicuous, attaining or slightly surpassing clypeus. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining level of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.65-1.90. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.5-4.0:4.0-5.0:3.0-4.0. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1.9-2.2:0.7-0.8. Long hairs present only on apex of second and on third rostral segments. Pronotum conspicuously flattened, light brown; densely beset with short yellowish setae except on smooth dark areas on fore lobe. Anterolateral angles pronounced, pointed, projecting forward to level of ocelli and postocular callosities. Anterior lobe with 1 + l anterolateral, more or less oval, dark spots, and lateral and submedian dark glabrous spots of irregular shape. Posterior lobe rugose, depressed anteriorly, sublaterally on each side with a distinct longitudinal depression, separating humerus from disc of pronotum. Hind margin of pronotum slightly rounded. Scutellum as shown in figures 282, 283. Hemelytra of male attaining, those of female falling very slightly short of, apex of abdomen. . Overall color of hemelytra yellowish, cells of membrane only slightly darkened. Legs with femora light brown, with irregularly scattered dark brown spots. Tibiae dark brown, with lightcolored basal annulus. Abdomen with venter yellowish brown, irregularly reticulated with dark. Connexival segments dark brown, their posterior third or fourth irregularly yellowish. Genitalia of male with basal plate struts large, fused at base ; dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma slightly angular distally . Eggs arranged in well-developed egg mass .
Psammolestes coreodes@Psammolestes coreodes Bergroth Figures 12D; 13D; 14E; 23A; 285-287 Psammolestes coreodes Bergroth, 1911, p. 144. Mazza, 1936b, p. 33, figs. 32-38. Abalos and Wygodzinsy, 1951, p. 151, figs. 33, 50, 54, 299-318. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 354, figs. 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16-17, 19-33. Length of male 12-14 mm, of female 13.5-15.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 4.0 mm, of female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male 5.5 mm, of female 6.0 mm General color light yellowish brown, speckled and spotted irregularly with dark brown or blackish; setae short, golden colored, Integument dull, slightly rugose. Head as long as or slightly longer than wide (l:0.8-1.0), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (1:1.2-1.3); its color yellowish dorsally, irregularly mottled with dark brown. Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (l:0.45-0.55). Clypeus slightly widened anteriorly. Genae conspicuous, strongly diverging, considerably surpassing clypeus. Eyes large, in lateral view attaining or not, but not surpassing, level of lower and closely approaching level of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.60-1.65. Ocelli inserted on conspicuous elevations; head strongly declivous behind ocelli. Antennae yellowish, spotted with dark; second article entirely dark apically, third darkened submedially. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.3-4.4:3.5-4.5:2.5-3.1. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.1-2.3:0.9-1.0. Long hairs present on entire second and on third rostral segment. Pronotum not conspicuously flattened, of general body color; fore lobe and anterolateral angles with small irregularly shaped black areas. Anterolateral angles flattened, acuminate, short, not attaining level of ocelli. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, median depression slight, posterior process narrowly tapered apically. Hemelytra of male attaining, of female approaching, apex of abdomen. Hemelytra of general body color, cells of membrane distinctly darkened. Legs light brown, with Irregularly scattered dark brown spots. Abdomen with venter yellowish brown, irregularly reticulated with dark, and with longitudinal rows of dark spots. Connexival segments yellowish, most specimens with two distinct dark brown spots along lateral margin, rest of connexival segment with irregularly distributed smaller dark spots. Genitalia of male with basal plate struts very small, separated, hookshaped ; dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma semielliptical . Eggs agglutinated but not forming regular egg masses.
Psammolestes tertius@Psammolestes tertius Lent and Jurberg Figures 288-290 Psammolestes tertius Lent and Jurberg, 1965, p. 359, figs. 2, 5, 8, 11, 14, 34-60. Psammolestes coreodes Lima, 1934, p. 1155, figs. 1-2. Lent, 1935, p. 382, figs. 1-6. Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 75, figs. 3-4. Lent and Jurberg, 1965, fig.18 (nee Bergroth). Length of male 11.5-12.5 mm, of female 12.5-13.5 mm Maximum width of pronotum of male 4 mm, of female 4.5 mm, of abdomen of male and female 5.5-6.0 mm General color light yellowish brown with scattered dark brown spots. Integument dull, with short golden colored setae. Head slightly longer than wide across eyes (1:0.85-0.95) and from slightly to distinctly shorter than pronotum (l:l.05-1.20); its color dorsally from yellowish brown with scattered small dark spots to rather uniformly dark with narrow percurrent yellowish median longitudinal line. Anteocular region from two to two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4-0.5). Clypeus slightly widened anteriorly. Genae conspicuous, strongly divergent, surpassing clypeus considerably. Eyes large, in lateral view attaining level of under and closely approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.5-1.6. Ocelli inserted on distinct elevations, the latter somewhat less prominent than in coreodes. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.3-6.3:4.1-5.2:3.1-3.6. Rostrum as shown in figure 290C. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2.0-2.3:0.85-1.0. Long hairs present on entire second and third rostral segments. Pronotum not conspicuously flattened, of general body color; anterior lobe with numerous dark brown spots. Anterolateral angles very short, not prominent. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, median depression small and shallow, posterior process narrowly tapering toward apex. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in both sexes, of general body color, with cells of membrane distinctly darkened. Legs of body color, with irregularly scattered dark spots . Abdomen and connexivum as in coreodes. Genitalia of male with basal plate struts of medium size, separated, broadly S- shaped; dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma broadly rounded apically. Eggs adhering to substrate, not forming regular egg masses.
CAVERNICOLINI USINGER@CAVERNICOLINI USINGER Cavemicolini Usinger, 1944, p. 32. Small Triatominae of not more than 13 mm, not flattened. Body surface smooth, without granulations or conspicuous rugosities, covered with long delicate hairs. Head strongly convex above. Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection. Genae inapparent, not extending beyond apex of clypeus. Ocelli not elevated, inconspicuous, situated in or immediately behind interocular sulcus, the latter strongly backwardly curved and almost attaining level of posterior border of head. Femora short, thickened. Corium with veins obsolescent. Abdomen elongate oval. Urosternites covering part of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. Articulatory apparatus of phallus of male without basal plate bridge. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface smooth, with long simple setae; head strongly convex dorsally;. eyes situated laterally at middle of head; antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process; fourth antennal segment much longer than any of the remaining; third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; fore and mid femora strongly incrassate, without denticles, but all femora with trichobothria; tarsi elongate, fore tarsi about half as long as tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle. First instar nymph: Head, thorax, and legs uniformly dark; all setae simple; fourth antennal segment longer than first, second and third combined; mesonotum in shape of narrow transversal band, not longer at middle than at sides; metanotal plates very smalJ, their distance much larger than twice their width; femora with trichobothria; hind tarsi without specialized hairs; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows.
Cavernicola Barber@Cavernicola Barber, 1937a, p. 60. Usinger, 1944, p. 32. Lent and Jurberg, 1969b, p. 318. General color brown, with yellowish markings. Head oval, about twice as long as wide across eyes, strongly convex dorsally; anteocular and postocular regions subequal in length. Interocular furrow shallow, extending backward almost to hind border of head. Eyes small. Ocelli obsolescent. Antennae inserted close to anterior border of eye. First antennal segment short; the remaining progressively longer from second to fourth. Second antennal segment with three closely spaced subbasal trichobothria, as well as one median and one subapical one. Remaining setae of second segment not of uniform size. Rostrum attaining prostemum, with first and third segments very short, second much longer. Pronotum convex, strongly declivous anteriorly, its surface dull, smooth, or faintly rugose, without dorsal or lateral tubercles. Sides of pronotum rounded, not carinate; posterior lobe with l + l narrow submedian carinae attaining hind border, latter with edge narrowly margined. Humeri rounded. Scutellum with disc elevated, convex; posterior process much shorter than disc, blunt, subvertical. Prostemal sulcus without stridulatory groove and without lateral tubercles. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen. Veins normally developed, but difficult to perceive on corium. Hind wings comparatively short and wide, anal lobe very wide; hamus attaining base of wing; distinct apical cell present; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs with femora widened, fusiform without denticles. Spongy fossae of tibiae absent in both sexes. Tarsi elongate. Abdomen convex below. Connexivum wide dorsally, perceptible ventral portion very narrow, only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates. Genitalia of male. Pygophore with median process platelike, bifurcate apically. Phallus with articulatory apparatus without basal plate bridge; pedicel extremely short. Basal plate struts short, somewhat curved, apically continued into short, subrectangular sclerotization. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. V esica not conspicuously sclerotized. Genitalia of female subconical, terminal tergites subhorizontal. First and fifth nymphal instars as described for tribe; prostemum without stridulatory sulcus.
Cavernicola pilosa@Cavernicola pilosa Barber Figures 6H; 7E, F; 9F, G; 15B, C; 23C; 25A, C, H, K; 26C; 29F; 31E, F; 291-293 Cavernicola pilosa Barber, 1937a, p. 61, 2 figs. Usinger, 1944, p. 33, pl. 7, fig.D. Lent and Jurberg, 1969b, p. 318, figs. 1-28. Length of male 11.0-11.5 mm, of females 12.0-13.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 3.0-3.2 mm, of female 3.5-4.0 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male. 4.0-4.5, of female 4.5-5.0 mm Body abundantly pilose except membrane of hemelytra; general color from dark brown to piceous, except stramineous on corium, veins of hemelytra, wedge-shaped area adjacent to inner cell of membrane, and coxae, trochantera, and base of femora. Head as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 2938, C, fusiform, slightly longer than pronotum (l:0.8-0.9). Anteocular region as long as postocular, the latter elongate with sides gradually converging toward behind, in dorsal view. Eyes small, in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of ventral and distant from level of dorsal surface of head. Ratio width of eye to interocular distance 1:2.6-2.9. First antenna} segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Ratio of antennal segments 1: 2. 7- 3. 0:4. 3-4. 6:4. 9-5. 0. Trichobothria of second antennal segment several times as long as diameter of segment, their distribution as shown in figure 9F, G. Rostrum with first segment very short, not attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment very long, attaining level of hind border of head; third segment short. Ratio of rostral segments 1:4.2: 1.2. Pronotum as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 293E. Anterolateral angles with short apically somewhat rounded processes. Scutellum with posterior process subhorizontal, rounded apically . Prosternum as illustrated . Hemelytra as in generic description and figures 291, 292, 2930. Corium more than twothirds of length of hemelytron. Hind wings with m-cu and section of M between mcu and R + M of identical length, not forming conspicuous angle. Cu bent apically so as to meet R + M, forming large closed cell. Hamus bifurcate apically. Legs as in generic description and figures 291, 292. Fore femora about 4.5 times as long as wide. Abdomen with spiracles remote from connexival suture . Phallus as in generic description and figure 23C. Pygophore of male with apically bifurcate median process .
BOLBODERINI USINGER@BOLBODERINI USINGER Bolboderini Usinger, 1944, p. 28. Small species of less than 12 mm long, their body distinctly compressed dorsoventrally. Body integument rugose and with small setigerous granules; body and appendages only with short hairs. Antenniferous tubercles with apicolateral spinelike projection. Genae salient, large, spinelike or platelike, projecting beyond apex of clypeus at least by distance equal to width of clypeus apically. Ocelli situated somewhat before middle of disc of postocular portion of head, not elevated, inconspicuous. Second antennal segment with 1-4 trichobothria arranged in a single row. Remaining setae of second antennal segment of uniform size. Prosternum with well-developed stridulatory sulcus. Legs short, femora thickened. Urosternites covering part of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. Articulatory apparatus of genitalia of male with basal plate bridge present. Structure of phallus varied. Fift instar nymph. Body surface from slightly rugose to heavily granulose, with short spinulose or scalelike setae. Head not strongly convex dorsally; genae surpassing clypeus by distance equal to width of clypeus apically; eyes situated laterally behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles with conspicuous apicolateral process; fourth antennal article only very slightly longer than longest of the others; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present; fore and mid femora from subcylindrical to slightly incrassate, with or without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle. First instar nymph: Overall color light, with more or less extensive dark areas on body and appendages, but never mottled; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; mesonotum longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates more than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; posterior tarsi apically without specialized hairs.
Bolbodera Valdes@Bolbodera Valdes, 1914, p. 101. Bruner and Fracker, 1926, p. 247. Usinger, 1941, p. 49; 1944, p. 28. Callotriatoma Usinger, 1939, p. 35. Triatominae of less than 10 mm in length; general color black. Head elongate fusiform, about twice as long as wide. Genae pointed, very slightly compressed laterally at base, surpassing clypeus, the latter widened subbasally, tapering at base; bucculae fully exposed. Postocular region subglobose. Postocular furrow well perceptible, broadly U-shaped. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining levels of upper and lower surface of head. Ocelli small but normally developed, situated on dorsal surface of head, slightly mesad of inner tangent of eyes. Antennae inserted apical of center of anteocular region. Second antenna} segment the longest, third and fourth subequal, shorter than second but longer than first. Second segment with one trichobothrium. Rostrum attaining prostemum, subcylindrical, only slightly compressed dorsoventrally; first segment short, attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second about twice as long as first; third the shortest. Pronotum with anterior lobe narrow; median constriction prominent. Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal tubercles and with 1 + 1 acute projections on lateral margin posteriorly. Anterolateral angles large, strongly tapering apically. Posterior lobe carinate laterally, with 1 + 1 abbreviated submedian carinae; humeral angles obtuse. Scutellum subtriangular, without anterolateral projections; posterior process subcylindrical, more than half as long as scutellum. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner membranal cell near inner angle of cell, running straight to base of hemelytron where it meets claval suture. R + M distinct, not connected by small branch to Sc, apical subdivision into R and M well perceptible. Hind wings with hamus extending to base of wing; secondary vein simple. Legs comparatively slender. Under surface of femora with large conical denticles arranged singly or in pairs, subequal in size. Tibia slender, cylindrical. Spongy fossulae absent. Tarsi elongate, three segmented. Venter abruptly flattened at center. Connexivum wide, without dorsal longitudinal ridge, its margins reflexed. Spiracles remote from apparent connexival suture. Genitalia not examined. Fifth instar nymph (not seen, characters deduced from those of adult). With the characters of the tribe; setae not scalelike; genae spinelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; femora with large denticles; tibiae without spongy fossulae; tarsi elongate, several times as long as diameter of tibiae apically.
Bolbodera scabrosa@Bolbodera scabrosa Valdes Figures 96, 296, 297 Bolbodera scabrosa Ms. Uhler Bolbadea leabrusa Valdes, 1910, p. 435 (sic) Bolbodera scabrosa Valdes, 1914, p. 101. Brunerand Fracker, 1926, p. 248, fig.1. Usinger, 1941, p.49; 1944, p. 29, pl. 7, fig.B. Alayo, 1967, p 28, pl. 7, fig.1Callotriatoma cubana Usinger, 1939, p. 37, pl. I. Male. Length 8.8 mm; maximum width of pronotum 2.3 mm, of abdomen 3.4 mm Head coarsely granulose, with short inconspicuous setae, black, twice as long as wide (1:0.55), slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.95). Anteocular region about one-fourth longer than postocular (1:0.8). Genae, eyes and ocelli as in generic description and figures 296, 297 A, B. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2.1. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3.2:1.7:1.8. Rostrum with sparse, short, inconspicuous setae; ratio of antennal segments 1:2.5:0.6. Neck testaceous. Pronotum and upper portion of propleura uniformly red; rest of thorax, including scutellum, black. Pronotum rugose-granulose; median constriction conspicuous; posterior lobe one and one-half times as wide as fore Jobe. Scutellum rugose; posterior process subcylindrical, as long as disc of pronotum. Hemelytra black, with corium red on its posterior two-thirds; a whitish line separating corium from membrane. Corium irregularly rugose, more strongly so on basal angle, falling distinctly short of level of apex of inner cell of membrane, and extending to level of center of fifth connexival segment. Legs uniformly black, their structure as in generic description and figure 297C. Femora with four or five denticles. Fore femora 4.3 times as long as wide, widest at middle. Abdomen black. Connexivum pink or red, with anterolateral angles of segments IV and V black; connexival segments VI-IX entirely black.
BELMINUS STAL@BELMINUS STAL Belminus 1943c, p. Stal, 498. 1859, Usinger, p. 101; 1944, 1868, p. 31. p. Herrer, 123. Lent, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 85. Marlianus Distant, 1902, p. 191. Small Triatominae of 8.5-12.0 mm in length; general color black. Body surface granulose and rugose. Head elongate fusiform, two and one-half to three times as long as wide. Genae compressed laterally, platelike, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus. and leaving part of bucculae exposed. Clypeus approximately parallel-sided, slightly tapering at base. Postocular region with sides subparallel or convex. Postocular furrow perceptible, broadly Ushaped. Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head. Ocelli small or obsolescent, laterally oriented, situated at or slightly laterad of levels Fm. 295. Cladogram of the hypothesized relationships of the genera of Bolboderini. of inner tangents of eyes. Antennae inserted slightly apicad of middle of anteocular region. Second and fourth antennal segments the longest, third slightly shorter. Second segment with four trichobothria arranged in one row. Rostrum attaining prosternum, subcylindrical, only very slightly compressed dorsoventrally; first and second segments elongate, subequal in length, third very short. Pronotum with fore lobe narrow; median constriction prominent. Anterior lobe granulose, with 7 + 7 discal tubercles. Anterolateral angles salient. Posterior lobe of pronotum with sides carinate; submedian carinae almost attaining posterior margin; surface of lobe heavily rugose transversally. Scutellum triangular, with l + l lateral subtriangular projections; posterior process subconical or slightly flattened, as long as main body of scutellum. Hemelytra falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner membranal cell near inner angle of cell very close to claval suture, meeting claval suture halfway to base of hemelytron, forming very narrow triangle with claval suture. R + M from distinct to obsolescent, not connected by small branch to Sc; divided apically into separate R and M. Corium heavily rugose transversally. Hind wings with hamus abbreviated. Secondary vein simple. Legs short. Under surface of femora with one to three denticles, one much larger than remaining. Tibiae slender, slightly curved, distinctly compressed laterally, with distinct ventral carina. Spongy fossulae absent. Tarsi medium sized, three segmented. Venter abruptly flattened at center. Connexivum wide dorsally, perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-third to one-fourth as wide as dorsal connexival plates. Dorsal connexival segments with conspicuous longitudinal ridge. Spiracles very close to apparent connexival suture. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with median process short, pointed. Articulatory apparatus with stapes slightly longer than wide; pedicel narrow and very elongate. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint; struts narrow, subparallel, not fused. Genitalia of female. Truncate apically, terminal tergites subvertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; setae not scalelike; first and second rostral segments subequal in length; genae platelike; laterally compressed, apex rounded in side view; femora with large denticles; tibiae without spongy fossulae; tarsi elongate, several times as long as diameter of tibiae apically. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; first rostral segment over half as long as second; spongy fossulae absent; setae of urotergites in two distinct transverse rows.
Belminus costaricensis@Belminus costaricensis Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky Figures 298-300 Triatoma rugulosa Neiva, 1913a, p. 74 (nee St41). Belminus rugolusus: Picado, 1913, p. 347 (sic; nee St41). Belminus rugulosus: Usinger, 1944, p. 31, pl. 7, fig.A. (nee St41). Belminus eostarieensis Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 95, figs. 42-48. Length of male 8.5 mm, of female 9 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 2.3, of female 3 mm, maximum width of abdomen of male 3.5 mm, of female 5 mm General color black, with yellow or orangebrown spots on membrane of hemelytr a and on abdomen. Head two and one- 1Spanish version of key, p. 482. half times as long as wide (l:0.35), distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Clypeus with anterior margin slightly rounded. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.5). Hind lobe of head oval, widest anteriorly with sides distinctly converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.4. Ocelli small but distinct. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle very short, barely projecting beyond base of first antennal segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.0:1.8:2.0. Rostrum with first segment closely approaching level of center of eye, second segment shorter, third shortest; ratio of length of segments 1:0.70:0.35. Pronotum of general body color, its shape as shown in figures 297, 298. Sides of anterior lobe subparallel, only slightly converging toward behind, forming conspicuous angle with sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes short, subtriangular, angular apically . Disc of anterior lobe irregularly granulose, tubercles very faint, difficult to perceive. Scutellum excavate on disc; scutellar process lanceolate, depressed dorsoventrally, sulcate longitudinally above. Hemelytra as shown in figures 289, 299, attaining level of center of seventh urotergite. Hemelytra black; membrane with five yellowish spots: one at base of each vein, one at apex of clavus, and one, the largest, adjacent to apex of corium. Corium over half as long as hemelytron, attaining level of apex of third visible connexival segment, and almost attaining level of apex of inner cell of membrane, the latter not widened subapically. Fore femora four times as long as wide, with two spinelike processes; mid and hind femora with only one, larger process. Abdomen with posterior fourth of each connexival segment yellowish or reddish dorsally and ventrally, light color continued ventrally onto lateral portions of urosternites. Spiracles very close to lateral margin of urostemites. MALE GENITALIA: As in generic description, very similar to those of B. peruvianus .
Belminus herreri@Belminus herreri, new species Figures 301,302 DIAGNOSIS: Belminus herreri differs from all other species of the genus by the light-colored areas of its thorax and the annulate legs DESCRIPTION. Length of male 8.5 mm, of female 9.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male and female 2.5 mm, of abdomen of male 3.8 mm, of female 4.0 mm General color black. The following areas yellow: collar including anterolateral processes; the 2+2 anterior discal tubercles of fore lobe of pronotum; submedian carinae of hind lobe of pronotum except their posterior portion; lateral and posterolateral margin of hind lobe of pronotum; apical half of scutellar process; a narrow band on corium adjacent to basal two-fifths of clavus; membrane narrowly along contact with corium; coxae and trochantera; narrow apical annulus of femora and a comparatively large submedian annulus on hind femora, incomplete on middle and missing on fore femora; posterior third of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally, extended onto adjacent areas of stemites and tergites; posterior border of pygophore, gonocoxites of eighth segment and median longitudinal stripe on eighth and ninth tergites of female. Head granulose, two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Clypeus truncate apically. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0.5), the latter subcircular, with sides conspicuously convergent posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of lower but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.15. Ocelli small, about as large as individual granule of head integument. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle small, barely extending beyond base of first antenna} segment. Rostrum with basal segment falling slightly short of level of anterior border of eyes; ratio of rostral segments 1:0.90:0.45. Shape of pronotum as shown in figures 301, 302B. Sides of anterior lobe not strongly diverging behind, forming conspicuous angle with sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes of pronotum broadly angular. Disc of anterior lobe granulose and with 7 + 7 tubercles, the 2 + 2 anterior ones the most conspicuous, the remaining difficult to observe. Carinae of posterior lobe almost attaining posterior border of pronotum. Scutellar process subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally, rugose transversally on dorsum, not sulcate. Hemelytra attaining basal third of seventh tergite in male (hemelytra of female not examined). Corium over half as long as hemelytra, attaining level of center of third visible connexival segment, and falling considerably short of apex of inner cell of membrane. The only complete specimen examined with cells of membrane modified by presence of subapical spurious transversal vein in outer cell of membrane. Membrane smoky black, with veins enclosed by deeper black areas. Legs as in generic description and figures 301, 302E. Fore femora four times as long as wide. Femora with one or two spinelike projections, if two then of very different size. Spiracles very close to lateral margin of urosternites . Genitalia as in generic description.
Belminus peruvianus@Belminus peruvianus Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky Figures 61; 9A; lOF; 12F; 13C; 14C; 23F, G; 240, R; 29K; 303-305 Belminus peruvianus Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 91, figs. 1-37. Length of males 10.2-10.8 mm, of female 11.2 mm; maximum width of pronotum 2.8-2.9 mm; maximum width of abdomen of male 4.1-4.7 mm, of female 4.8-5.0 mm General color black, in some cases faintly tinged with pink. Antennae, rostrum, and in some cases apices of femora and tarsi, light brown. Light yellowish spots at base of the three veins of membrane; a similar spot at apex of corium. Posterior border of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally with irregularly shaped yellowish red transversal spot occupying from one-third to one-fourth of surface of each connexival segment. Lateral areas of stemites with more or less extensive reddish areas connected to connexival spots. In some specimens, small reddish areas of variable extension before and behind eyes, on sides of hind lobe of head dorsally, on apices of anterolateral projection of pronotum, and on discal tubercles of fore lobe. Head strongly granulate, granules largest on dorsal surface. Head two and one-half times as long as wide (l:0.4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8). Oypeus emarginate apically. Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0.4), the latter subrectangular, with sides almost straight, subparallel, only very slightly converging toward behind. Eyes in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal or ventral surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.5. Ocelli very small, obsolescent, not larger than average granule of head. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle large, attaining one-third of length of first antennal segment. Setae of second antennal segment as shown in figure 61, trichobothrial pattern as shown in figure 9A. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.85-2.1:1.55-1.65:1.65-1.85. Rostrum with first segment not extending beyond level of posterior third of anteocular region; ratio of rostral segments 1:1.0:0.45. Pronotum black, its shape as shown in figure 304. Sides of anterior lobe strongly diverging toward behind, not forming conspicuous anglewith sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes pointed. Disc of anterior lobe with 7 + 7 very conspicuous tubercles, the latter subconical in side view. Scutellar process black, subcylindrical, almost pointed posteriorly, rugose transversally on dorsum, not sulcate . Hemelytra and wings as in generic description and figures 304, 305C, F, not quite attaining center of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium half as long as hemelytron, its apex attaining level of extreme base of third visible abdominal tergite, and extending only slightly beyond level of middle of internal cell of membrane, the latter cell slightly widened subapically. Legs with fore femora three and one-half times as long as wide. Femora with one large and two or three smaller denticles or processes, the larger ones up to one-half as long as diameter of femur. Abdomen with spiracles close to external margin of sternites. Genitalia as in generic description and figure 23F, G.
Belminus rugulosus@Belminus rugulosus Stal Figures 306-308 Belminus rugulosus Stal, 1859, p. 102, pl. 6, fig.I. Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 94. Martinez and Carcavallo, 1976, p. 241, fig.I. Conorhinus diminutus Walker, 1873b, p. 19. Marlianus diminutus: Distant, 1902, p. 191. Female. Length 10.5-11.0 mm Maximum width of pronotum 2.5-2.8 mm, of abdomen 4.0-4.3 mm General color black. Scutellar proc ss, spots at base of membranal cells and at apex of corium, at base of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally and on adjacent area of urosternites, yellowish brown or orange. Third and fourth antennal segments, rostrum, apices of femora, and tarsi brown. Head granulose, granules of various sizes. Head slightly more than twice as long as wide (1:0.45-0.50) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.85-0.90). Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular (1:0.45-0.50), the latter faintly rounded laterally, with sides strongly converging posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head; ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.20-2.35. Ocelli small. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.9-2.0:l.4:l.4. Rostrum with first segment not quite attaining level of anterior border of eyes; ratio of antennal segments 1:0. 75-0.85:0.4-0.5. Pronotum black, most heavily granulose on fore lobe, with 7 + 7 distinct tubercles. Sides of anterior lobe subparallel, only slightly diverging toward behind, forming conspicuous angle with sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes large, distinctly pointed. Scutellum excavate on disc; scutellar process shallowly sulcate dorsally. Hemelytra almost attaining level of posterior border of tergite VII. Corium approximately half as long as hemelytron, its apex attaining level of center of third visible connexival segment, and approaching level of apex of inner membranal cell, the latter comparatively wide. Legs as in generic description and figures 306, 307. Femora with two or three spinelike processes. Venter with spiracles very close to lateral margin of stemites. Genitalia as in generic description.
Parabelminus Lent@Parabelminus Lent, 1943c, p. 497. Triatominae of 9-10 mm in length. Basic color black. Distinct, short adpressed setae on most body parts. Head from one and one-half to twice as long as wide, shallowly but distinctly excavate longitudinally on under surface for reception of rostrum. Genae compressed laterally, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus, and completely covering bucculae. Clypeus wide anteriorly, narrowed posteriorly. Postocular region subrectangular, with sides slightly coverging towards behind. Postocular furrow obsolescent. Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view surpassing level of ventral but not attaining level of dorsal surface of head. Ocelli very small, obsolescent, laterally oriented, situated at level of inner tangents of eyes. Antennae inserted on anterior third of anteocular region. First segment short, second and third segments subequal in size, fourth slightly longer. Second segment with three equidistant trichobothria. Rostrum attaining prosternum, distinctly flattened dorsoventrally; first and third segment shortest, second much longer. Pronotum with anterior lobe covered by setiferous granules forming distinct pattern; anterolateral angles short. Posterior lobe with humeri rounded; submedian carinae almost attaining hind border; surface of posterior lobe rugose-granulose. Scutellum subsemicircular, exposed portion subtrapezoidal; posterior process absent. Surface of scutellum heavily rugose. Hemelytra falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner cell of membrane remote from inner angle of cell, conspicuously curved, meeting claval suture at center of latter, enclosing wide subtriangular cell. R + M obsolescent, connected on its basal half by small branch to Sc; apical subdivision into R and M not discernible. Hind wing with hamus attaining base of wing; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs short, granulose. Femora stout, with l + 1 short, spinelike teeth on under surface subapically. Lower surface of femora smooth, somewhat concave, closely fitting tibia when legs closed. Tibiae short, widened, distinctly compressed laterally, conspicuously narrowed at base. Spongy fossulae present on all three pairs of legs, small, not longer than width of tibia apically. Tarsi short, about one fifth the length of tibia, two-segmented. Abdomen heavily rugose dorsally and ventrally; portion of basal tergite exposed between hemelytra. Central area of venter slightly convex only, but not abruptly flattened. Connexivum very wide dorsally, connexival segments as wide as one-fifth of width of abdomen; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments. Spiracles remote from connexival suture. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short, narrow, subrectangular apical process. Articulatory apparatus short, transverse, subrectangular; pedicel very short. Struts separated at base, their apical portion fused into narrow tonguelike structure. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. Genitalia of female truncate apically, terminal tergites vertical. Fifth instar nymph (not seen, characters deduced from those of fourth instar nymph). With the characters of the tribe; setae not scalelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; genae platelike, compressed laterally, their apex rounded in side view; femora with small but distinct denticles; tibiae with spongy fossulae on all pairs; tarsi very short, about twice as long as diameter of tibia apically. First instar nymph: As described for tribe; first rostral segment less than half as long as second; spongy fossulae on all pairs of legs; setae of urotergites in three irregular transverse rows.
Parabelminus carioca@Parabelminus carioca Lent Figures 98; 23E; 309-311 Parabelminus carioca Lent, 1943c, p. 509, figs. 3-10. Length of male 9.0-9.5 mm, of female 10 mm, maximum width of pronotum of male 2.5, of female 3.0 mm, of abdomen of male 4.0-4.5, of female 5.0 mm General color black, antennae brown; hemelytra with yellowish spots at base of membrane and adjacent to corium. Head almost twice as long as wide (1:0.5-0.6) and as long as or very slightly longer than pronotum (1:0.9-1.0); anteocular region distinctly longer than postocular (1:0.7). Hind lobe of head one and one-half times as wide as long (1:0.7). Synthlipsis equal to more than twice the width of eye (1:2.5-2.7). Trichobothrial pattern of second antennal segment as shown in figure 98. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2.3:2.4:3.0. Rostrum as in generic description and figure 311; ratio of rostral segments 1:2.8:0.9. Portuguese version, p. 499. Pronotum as shown in figures 309, 310, 311; median constriction not pronounced, sides of anterior and posterior lobes forming an almost straight line. Anterolateral angles of pronotum shortly pointed. Scutellum as shown in figures 309, 310, 311A. Hemelytra and hind wings as in generic description and figures 309, 310, 3110. General color of hemelytra black. Yellowish white areas in space enclosed by Cu and claval suture, on bases of inner and outer cells of membrane or of inner cell only, on membrane adjacent to base of inner cell, and in area adjacent to apex of corium. Apex of hemelytra slightly surpassing base of seventh abdominal tergite, falling considerably short of apex of abdomen in both sexes. Legs as in generic description and figures 309, 310, 311C. Femora each with one pair of distinct spinelike processes; fore femora widest on anterior third, slightly over three times as long as wide. Abdomen of general body color; posterolateral angles of connexival segments with small light reddish spots . GENITALIA: Of male and female as in generic description; genitalia of male as illustrated .
Parabelminus yurupucu@Parabelminus yurupucu, new species Figures 23H; 24E; 251; 312, 313 Parabelminus species, Miles, 1976, p. 51 DIAGNOSIS: Parabelminus yurupucu differs from P. carioca, the only other known species of the genus, by its more slender head, the larger eyes, the sides of the fore and hind lobe of the pronotum forming a conspicuous angle, and the rounded anterolateral projections of the pronotum DESCRIPTION. Length of male 8. 9 mm, of female 9.5-9.7 mm, width of pronotum of male 2.3 mm, of female 2.5 mm; width of abdomen of male 3.9 mm, of female 4.3-4.4 mm General color pattern much as in P. carioca . Head twice as long as wide (1:0.5), distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0.8-0. 9); anteocular region almost twice as long as postocular (1:0.60-0.65). Hind lobe of head one and one-half times as wide as long (1:0. 7 5). Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1.65-1.85; viz., eye slightly over half as wide as synthlipsis. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1. 75-1.80:1.85-2.10:2.00. Rostrum as shown in figure 313B. Ratio of rostral segments l:2.40-2.80:0.80-0.85. Pronotum bell-shaped, median constriction pronounced, sides of anterior and posterior lobes meeting at conspicuous angle, viz., fore lobe with sides less diverging than in carioca. Anterolateral angles of pronotum bluntly rounded. Scutellum as in carioca. Hemelytra much as in carioca, yellowish spots slightly smaller. Fore femora about three and onehalf times as long as wide, with one pair of short denticles; mid and hind femora each with one pair of spinelike processes. Abdomen and genitalia as in carioca; genital region of female as shown in figure 3130.
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ Microtriatoma Prosen and Martinez, 1952, p. 6. Triatominae of 7-8 mm in length, strongly flattened. Various body regions with distinct adpressed short setae. Basic color black. Head from 1.2-1.7 times as long as wide, not distinctly sulcate on under surface. Genae compressed laterally, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus, and completely covering bucculae. Clypeus widest near apex, narrowed posteriorly. Postocular region from subrectangular, with sides very slightly converging toward behind to subsemicircular. Postocular furrow obsolescent. Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ocelli very small, laterally oriented, situated at level of inner tangents of eyes. Antennae inserted at center of anteocular portion of head. First segment short, second, third, and fourth segments longer, subequal in length. Second segment with three trichobothria, two close to base, one near middle of segment. Rostrum attaining prostemum, distinctly flattened; first segment attaining level of insertion of antennae. Pronotum with anterior lobe granulose, posterior lobe rugose-granulose; anterolateral angles short; discal and lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe with humeri widely rounded; submedian carinae almost attaining hind border. Scutellum subtriangular, heavily rugose-granulose. Posterior process lanceolate, slightly shorter than disc of scutellum. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner cell of membrane remote from inner angle of cell, conspicuously curved, meeting claval suture at center of latter, enclosing wide subtriangular cell. R + M obsolescent, connected at middle by a small branch to Sc; apical subdivision into R and M faintly perceptible. Hind wing hamus attaining base of wing; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs short, femora not as much thickened as in Parabelminus and without denticles. Tibiae short, compressed laterally, not conspicuously narrowed at base. Spongy fossulae present on all three pairs of legs, small, not longer than width of tibiae apically. Tarsi short, about one fifth of length of tibia, two-segmented. Abdomen heavily rugose dorsally and ventrally. Central portion of venter almost flat but not abruptly so. Connexivum very wide dorsally; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments. Spiracles remote from connexival suture. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short, narrow, apically blunt posterior process. Articulatory apparatus about as long as wide. Pedicel very short. Struts separated at base, their apical halves fused, forming a narrow tonguelike structure. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. Genitalia of female truncate posteriorly, eighth and ninth tergites vertical. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; most setae scalelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; genae platelike, laterally compressed, apex rounded in lateral view; femora without denticles; tibiae with spongy fossulae on all pairs; tarsi very short, about as long as diameter of tibiae apically.
Microtriatoma borbai@Microtriatoma borbai, new species Figures 314, 315 DIAGNOSIS: A species distinguished from trinidadensis, the only other species of the genus, mainly by the very short hind lobe of the head, the comparatively longer third rostral segment, and the uniformly dark membrane of the hemelytra DESCRIPTION. Length of male 7.0-8.0 mm, of female 7 .5 mm Color pattern as in trinidadensis, but general color in most specimens piceous although appearing black to the naked eye. Head stout in lateral view, and twice as long as high. In dorsal view, head about one and one-fourth times as long as wide (1:0.8) and invariably shorter than pronotum (l:l.l-1.2). Anteocular region varying from slightly longer than, to as long as, postocular region (1:0.9-1.0). Postocular region subsemicircular, very short, ratio length to width 1:1.7-2.0. Genae, eyes and ocelli as in trinidadensis. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.5. Ratio of antennal segments l:l.5-1.9:1.3-1.4:l.5-l.9. Rostrum as shown in figure 315A; ratio of rostral segments 1:1.8-2.0:1.0. 1Spanish version of key, p. 499, Portuguese version, p. 477. Pronotum as in trinidadensis; anterolateral angles pointed in most specimens . Hemelytra and hind wings as in trinidadensis, but membrane of hemelytra concolorous dark . Apex of hemelytra of male approaching posterior border of tergite VII, of female shorter, closer to basal than to posterior border of tergite VII. Male genitalia with fused portion of struts narrow, parallel-sided for most of its length . Legs as in trinidadensis. DISTRIBUTION: Brazil (Parana).
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@Microtriatoma trinidadensis (Lent) Figures 9C, D; 230; 316-318 Bolbodera trinidadensis Lent, 195la, p. 153, figs. 1-3. Microtriatoma trinidadensis: Prosen and Martinez, 1952, p. 8. Carcavallo, Barreto, Martinez and Tonn, 1976, p. 236, figs. 4-7. Microtriatoma mansosotoi Prosen and Martinez, 1952, p. 8, figs. 1-3. Wygodzinsky, 1960, p. 317, figs. 35-44. D Alessandro, Barreto and Duarte, 1971, p. 162. Carcavallo, Barreto, Martinez and Tonn, 1976, p. 232, figs. 1-3. Length of male 7.5-8.0 mm, of female 7.5 mm; maximum width of pronotum of male 2.0 mm, of female 2.3 mm, of abdomen of male 3.3, of female 3.5 mm General color piceous to black. Head of general body color, with adpressed setae. Head slender in lateral view, more than twice as long as high (l:0.38-0.46). In dorsal view, head about one and one-half times as long as wide (1:0.6-0.7), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1.0-1.2). Anteocular region varying from slightly longer to slightly shorter than postcoular (l:0.8-1.1). Postocular region of head varying from subrectangular to subsemicircular, invariably wider than long, ratio length to width 1:1.3-1.6. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2.2. Trichobothrial pattern of second antennal segment as shown in figure 9C, D. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1.3-2.1:1.3-2.1:1.7-2.3. Rostrum as in generic description and figure 3188, I, N, P, X; ratio of segments 1:1.5-1.7:0.7-0.8. Neck of general body color. Pronotum of general body color, its shape as shown in figures 316, 317, 318A; sides of anterior and posterior lobes almost continuous, not forming conspicuous angle. Anterolateral angles of pronotum from blunt to distinctly pointed. Scutellum with disc depressed at center. Legs as in generic description and figures 316, 317, of general body color, with coxae and trochantera yellowish. Fore femur widest at anterior third, almost four times as long as wide. Hemelytra and hind wings as in general description and figures 316, 317. Corium distinctly pilose; general color of hemelytra dark, membrane speckled with whitish. Larger whitish areas on apical half of clavus, except extreme apex and conspicuous spot at level of apex of scutellar process, on corium on space enclosed by Cu and claval suture, on adjacent areas of membrane, and on narrow band of membrane adjacent to apical portion of corium. Apex of hemelytra approaching posterior border of tergite VII in both sexes. Abdomen of general body color. Connexivum dorsally and ventrally with narrow transversal yellowish bands before each intersegmental suture, widest near outer margin of connexival segments. Spiracles yellowish. Genitalia of female as in generic description, of male as in figures 230, 318S-V.
ALBERPROSENIINI MARTINEZ AND CARCAVALLO@ALBERPROSENIINI MARTINEZ AND CARCAVALLO Alberproseniini Martinez and Carcavallo, 1977, p 112. Very small Triatominae of approximately 5 mm length, their body somewhat compressed dorsoventrally. Body integument minutely granulose and rugose; body and appendages only with short setae. Head extraordinarily short and wide, with anteocular portion shorter than length of eyes, in dorsal view. Antenniferous tubercles adjacent to anterior border of eyes, short, without apicolateral projections. Anteocular portion of head with bucculae. Genae inconspicuous, not projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Ocelli large, inserted on well-developed ocelliferous elevations on disc of postocular portion of head. Second article of antennae with trichobothria arranged in one row. Legs short, femora thickened. Abdomen broadly oval. Urosternites covering part of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. Genitalia of male not examined in detail. MALE GENITALIA: of a specialized structure. Fifth instar nymph: Body surface delicately chagrine, somewhat rugose; genae short, not surpassing level of apex of clypeus; eyes situated laterally on posterior third of head; antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral processes; stridulatory sulcus present; fore and mid femora incrassate, denticulate, without trichobothria; fore tarsi shorter than half the length of tibia; abdomen membranous, without tubercles or granules.
Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo@Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo, 1977, p. 113. Triatominae of approximately 5 mm in length. Overall body color black, with simple yellow pattern elements. Body surface delicately granulose and rugose. Head very short, approximately as long as wide across eyes. Genae inconspicuous. Clypeus widest before middle, its apex slightly convex. Postocular region with sides rounded, convergent behind. Postocular furrow faintly perceptible, straight across at level of posterior border of eyes. Dorsal surface of head between eyes with median longitudinal, apically bifurcate crest. Eyes large, occupying considerable portion of lateral surf ace of head. Antenniferous tubercles inserted close to anterior margin of eyes. Antennae short, with second and fourth articles the longest, third slightly shorter. Second segment with several trichobothria in one row, the two basal ones closely approximated, the apical one longer than the remaining. Pronotum with fore lobe divided by deep longitudinal median sulcus into two strongly convex portions, without tubercles. Constriction between anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum well marked. Posterior lobe rugose, with humeral angles narrow, somewhat flaring; submedian carinae well developed, almost attaining posterior margin. Scutellum triangular, disc deeply excavated. Posterior process of scutellum slightly longer than body of scutellum, stout, horizontal, subcylindrical, rounded apically. Stridulatory sulcus of prosternum well developed. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Cu inserted at base of inner membranal cell remote from claval suture, curved, closely approaching claval suture halfway to base of hemelytron. R+ M distinct at base, forming short ridge, connected by short branch to Sc; obsolescent on distal two-thirds, apical division into R and M difficult to observe. Entire corium heavily rugose. Inner cell of membrane much narrower and shorter than outer cell. Legs short. Under surface of femora with several subequal denticles. Tibiae slender, straight; fore tibiae strongly compressed laterally. Spongy fossulae on first pair of legs in male (female unknown). Tarsi long and slender, three-segmented. Abdomen convex below. Connexivum wide dorsally; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates, the latter without ridges. Urosternites irregularly wrinkled, minutely carinulate along base of each urosternite. Spiracles distant from lateral margin of urosternites by several times their own diameter. MALE GENITALIA: Pygophore with short triangular platelike process apically. Articulatory apparatus long and slender, not examined in detail. Basal plate struts very short, apparently fused into an upper platelike apically emarginated structure, and 1 + 1 lower subcircular structures. Dorsal sclerotization of phallus large but faint; vesica and lateral endosoma processes not observed. Fifth instar nymph: With the characters of the tribe; setae short but not scalelike; second rostral article longer than first, third the shortest; bucculae at base of rostrum distinct; femora denticulate; tibiae without spongy fossulae; tarsi elongate, several times as long as diameter of tibia apically.
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@Alberprosenia goyovargasi Martinez and Carcavallo Figures 29P; 319, 320 , p. 114, fig.l. Male (female unknown). Length 5.0 mm; maximum width of pronotum I. 6 mm, of abdomen 1.0 mm Overall color from dark reddish brown to black, with light brown and yellow pattern elements. Head piceous, sides of postocular region light brown; surface granulose, especially on ocelliferous tubercles and on apically bifurcate dorsal longitudinal ridge along center. Head as long as wide across eyes. Anteocular region four times as Jong as postocular, the latter subsemicircular, four times as wide as long, entirely occupied on dorsum by large ocelliferous tubercles separated by a longitudinal furrow. Eyes in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under and cl sely approaching level of upper surface of head. Jugae and genae inconspicuous in lateral view, genae not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus in dorsal flew. Antenniferous tubercles very short, adjoining anterior margin of eyes. Antennae with first segment slightly less than twice as long as wide, second with five trichobothria as shown in figure 320C. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4.2:3.3:4.2. Rostrum as in generic description and figure 3208; second and third segments slightly flattened. Ratio of rostral segments I: 1.33:0.47. Pronotum piceous, gradually lighter toward behind; humeri and anterolateral angles yellowish white. Structure of pronotum as in generic description and figures 319A, 3208. Sides of anterior and posterior lobes forming distinct angle. Anterior lobe of pronotum strongly elevated. Humeral angles flaring. Anterolateral processes small, broadly subconical. Scutellum irregularly and coarsely wrinkled; median depression not delimitated by distinct carinae. Meso and metapleura and stema coarsely and irregularly rugose. Hemelytra as in generic descriptions and figures 319A, 320F. Corium and basal third of clavus piceous; corium reddish at base, conspicuously yellowish white apically. Membrane brown, fumose, with large yellowish white subcircular spot occupying basal half of inner membranal cell and adjacent areas. Legs as in generic description and figure 320 D, I, M, stout, fore femora 3.5 times as long as wide. Denticles of femora arranged in two short series. Spongy fossula small. Legs piceous, with coxae, trochantera, base of femora widely and their apex narrowly, yellowish white; tarsi light brown. Abdomen of general body color. Connexival segments dorsally with posterior two-fifths yellowish white. Ventrally, connexival segments and adjacent portions of urosternites with posterior fourth yellowish white. Venter convex. Spiracles remote from lateral margin of urostemites . Integument of venter delicately wrinkled, irregularly so on disc of urostemites, minutely canaliculate longitudinally along posterior margin of sclerites . MALE GENITALIA: As in generic description and figures 320G, J, K, L, N.
