Rhodnius paraensis Sherlock, Guitton and Miles Figures 271, 272 Rhodnius paraensis Sherlock, Guitton and Miles, 1977, p. 71, figs. 1-11. Length of male 10,5-11,0 , of female 10,8-12,0 ; width of pronotum of male 2,8 , of female 3,0 ; width of abdomen of male and female 4 Overall color light brown, with very dark brown markings on body and appendages; hemelytra almost entirely dark . Head granulose, especially so on sides; its color light brown, with anteclypeus, genae, antenniferous tubercles, ocelliferous tubercles, lateral surface except behind eyes and entire under surface, dark brown, almost black. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,55) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region less than twice as long as postocular (1:0,65). In lateral view, eyes attaining level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,55. First antennal segment yellowish brown; second and basal three-fifths of third black, apical portion of third whitish; fourth white with short basal annulus dark. Antennal segments comparatively stout and short; ratio of segments 1:4,0:3,6:3,3. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1:2,7:0,9. Neck black, yellowish brown at center and laterally. Pronotum with anterior lobe feebly granulose, posterior lobe distinctly, irregularly rugose. Pronotum dark brown, with lateral margins, 1 + 1 elongate longitudinal stripes enclosing submedian carinae and extending to hind border, as well as an elongate cuneiform longitudinal mark at center of hind lobe, yellowish brown. Anterolateral angles of pronotum not prominent . Scutellum with 1 + 1 distinct anterior light-colored carinae fused posteriorly into a single carina; light color extending along entire posterior process. Hemelytra dark brown; narrowly yellowish brown at base. Legs light yellowish brown, with coxae, one large basal and one large apical annulus on femora, apical fourfifths of fore tibia, and one large submedian and one large apical annulus on mid and hind tibiae, dark brown. Tarsi dark. Legs comparatively short and stout; femora fusiform; fore femora slightly less than three and one-half times as long as wide. Abdomen yellowish brown ventrally, irregularly clouded with dark. Connexivum narrowly visible from below. Dorsal and ventral connexival segments dark brown on anterior three-fifths and contrastingly light yellow on posterior two fifths . MALE GENITALIA:Median process of pygophore wide, bifid .