Bolbodera Valdes, 1914, p. 101. Bruner and Fracker, 1926, p. 247. Usinger, 1941, p. 49; 1944, p. 28. Callotriatoma Usinger, 1939, p. 35. Triatominae of less than 10 in length; general color black. Head elongate fusiform, about twice as long as wide. Genae pointed, very slightly compressed laterally at base, surpassing clypeus, the latter widened subbasally, tapering at base; bucculae fully exposed. Postocular region subglobose. Postocular furrow well perceptible, broadly U-shaped. Eyes small, in lateral view not attaining levels of upper and lower surface of head. Ocelli small but normally developed, situated on dorsal surface of head, slightly mesad of inner tangent of eyes. Antennae inserted apical of center of anteocular region. Second antenna} segment the longest, third and fourth subequal, shorter than second but longer than first. Second segment with one trichobothrium. Rostrum attaining prostemum, subcylindrical, only slightly compressed dorsoventrally; first segment short, attaining level of antenniferous tubercles, second about twice as long as first; third the shortest. Pronotum with anterior lobe narrow; median constriction prominent. Anterior lobe with 1 + 1 discal tubercles and with 1 + 1 acute projections on lateral margin posteriorly. Anterolateral angles large, strongly tapering apically. Posterior lobe carinate laterally, with 1 + 1 abbreviated submedian carinae; humeral angles obtuse. Scutellum subtriangular, without anterolateral projections; posterior process subcylindrical, more than half as long as scutellum. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner membranal cell near inner angle of cell, running straight to base of hemelytron where it meets claval suture. R + M distinct, not connected by small branch to Sc, apical subdivision into R and M well perceptible. Hind wings with hamus extending to base of wing; secondary vein simple. Legs comparatively slender. Under surface of femora with large conical denticles arranged singly or in pairs, subequal in size. Tibia slender, cylindrical. Spongy fossulae absent. Tarsi elongate, three segmented. Venter abruptly flattened at center. Connexivum wide, without dorsal longitudinal ridge, its margins reflexed. Spiracles remote from apparent connexival suture. Genitalia not examined. Fifth instar nymph (not seen, characters deduced from those of adult). With the characters of the tribe; setae not scalelike; genae spinelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; femora with large denticles; tibiae without spongy fossulae; tarsi elongate, several times as long as diameter of tibiae apically.