Alberprosenia goyovargasi Martinez and Carcavallo, 1977. DISTRIBUTION:Venezuela BIOLOGY:Nymphs found under the bark of dead trees. Alberprosenia goyovargasi Martinez and Carcavallo Figures 29P; 319, 320 Alberprosenia goyovargasi Martinez and Carcavallo, 1977, p. 114, fig.l. Male (female unknown). Length 5,0 ; maximum width of pronotum I. 6 , of abdomen 1,0 Overall color from dark reddish brown to black, with light brown and yellow pattern elements. Head piceous, sides of postocular region light brown; surface granulose, especially on ocelliferous tubercles and on apically bifurcate dorsal longitudinal ridge along center. Head as long as wide across eyes. Anteocular region four times as Jong as postocular, the latter subsemicircular, four times as wide as long, entirely occupied on dorsum by large ocelliferous tubercles separated by a longitudinal furrow. Eyes in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under and cl sely approaching level of upper surface of head. Jugae and genae inconspicuous in lateral view, genae not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus in dorsal flew. Antenniferous tubercles very short, adjoining anterior margin of eyes. Antennae with first segment slightly less than twice as long as wide, second with five trichobothria as shown in figure 320C. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4,2:3,3:4,2. Rostrum as in generic description and figure 3208; second and third segments slightly flattened. Ratio of rostral segments I:1,33:0,47. Pronotum piceous, gradually lighter toward behind; humeri and anterolateral angles yellowish white. Structure of pronotum as in generic description and figures 319A, 3208. Sides of anterior and posterior lobes forming distinct angle. Anterior lobe of pronotum strongly elevated. Humeral angles flaring. Anterolateral processes small, broadly subconical. Scutellum irregularly and coarsely wrinkled; median depression not delimitated by distinct carinae. Meso and metapleura and stema coarsely and irregularly rugose. Hemelytra as in generic descriptions and figures 319A, 320F. Corium and basal third of clavus piceous; corium reddish at base, conspicuously yellowish white apically. Membrane brown, fumose, with large yellowish white subcircular spot occupying basal half of inner membranal cell and adjacent areas. Legs as in generic description and figure 320 D, I, M, stout, fore femora 3,5 times as long as wide. Denticles of femora arranged in two short series. Spongy fossula small. Legs piceous, with coxae, trochantera, base of femora widely and their apex narrowly, yellowish white; tarsi light brown. Abdomen of general body color. Connexival segments dorsally with posterior two-fifths yellowish white. Ventrally, connexival segments and adjacent portions of urosternites with posterior fourth yellowish white. Venter convex. Spiracles remote from lateral margin of urostemites . Integument of venter delicately wrinkled, irregularly so on disc of urostemites, minutely canaliculate longitudinally along posterior margin of sclerites . MALE GENITALIA:As in generic description and figures 320G, J, K, L, N.