Triatoma amicitiae Lent Figures 34-36 Triatoma amicitiae Lent, 195ld, p. 427, figs. 1-3; Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Female (male not known). Length 15 ; width of pronotum 4 , of abdomen 7 Overall color uniformly orange-brown, with only extreme apex of corium and entire membrane, dark. Integument granulose on head and thorax. Setae very short and sparse. Head strongly convex dorsally between eyes, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,55) and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0,45); postocular with sides slightly rounded, somewhat converging posteriorly. Clypeus widened on posterior half, elevated in lateral view. Genae slightly tapering distally, their apex rounded, extending to level of apex of clypeus. Eyes unusually small, in lateral view not quite attaining level of lower surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:4,2. Ocelli small. Antenniferous tubercles situated behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first with apex falling short of level of apex of clypeus, second segment only with very short setae. Second segment four times as long as first. Rostrum with short setae on all segments, slightly longer on apex of second and on third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second falling slightly short of level of posterior border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,4:0,5. Anterior lobe of pronotum without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe irregularly rugose-granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before hind margin of pronotum; humeri rounded. Anterolateral angles with short, triangular, anterolaterally directed projections. Scutellum with central depression limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum, stout, subconical, its apex slightly upward turned. Hemelytra attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish, lighter colored than rest of body, only its apex darkened. Membrane dark. Legs stout, with fore femur about four times as long as wide, and without denticles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae (probably present in male). Venter slightly flattened longitudinally along middle, its microsculpture consisting of meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Dorsal connexival segments with conspicuous rugosities along outer margin. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Connexivum unicolorous, not spotted.