Triatoma hegneri Mazzotti Figures 80, 81 Triatoma hegneri Mazzotti, 1940c, p. 22, I fig. Usinger, 1944, p. 55, pl. 9, fig.B. Male (female unknown). Length 28-29 ; width of pronotum 6,5-7,0 , of abdomen 10,5-11,0 mm . Overall color from dark brown to black, with orange-yellow spots on neck and connexivum and yellow markings on corium. Setae very short and sparse, inapparent. Head transversely rugose dorsally, punctate, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0,45-0,50) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1,1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0,3); postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Genae tapering distally, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. Eyes large, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not quite attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,2-1,3. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus, appearing bare, viz., its setae very short and sparse. Second segment with strong declinate setae about as long as diameter of segment, as well as with very numerous short, delicate, erect hairs. Ratio of first two antennal segments 1:2,5-3,0. Rostrum with very short, inconspicuous hairs, becoming longer only on third segment. First segment attaining level of apex of antenniferoustubercles, second attaining level of hind borderof head. Ratio of rostral segments1:1,8-2,0:0,5-0,6. Neck dark, with l + l orangeyellow spots laterally. Pronotum with anterior lobe black, posterior lobe contrastingly dark reddish brown. Pronotum distinctly constricted laterally at level of transverse sulcus. Surface of anterior lobe smooth, glabrous, with low carinae. Discal and lateral tubercles small but distinct. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose, in some specimens sublateral carinae crossed by rugosities; carinae not attaining posterior margin. Humeral angles rounded. Scutellum with central portion depressed, rugose, not limited by distinct ridges. Posterior process stout, about as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, slightly deflected apically. Anterolateral angles shortly conical, pointed, laterally directed. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen. Corium without perceptible setae, yellow, with large central dark spot of variable size but not reaching costal margin; apex of corium dark. Legs of medium length, fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid legs. Abdomen flattened below longitudinally along middle, but flattened portion not sharply divided from lateral rounded portion of venter. Urosternites minutely striate transversally. Hairs of venter inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by from one to two times their diameter. Venter and connexivum uniformly dark, or connexival segments on posteroextemal angle each with small orange yellow spot of variable extension, extending onto connexival suture .