Triatoma limai Del Ponte Figures 98-100 Triatoma limai Del Ponte, 1929, p. 6, fig.6. Neotriatoma limai:Pinto, 1931, p. 122. Mazza and Jorg, 1937, p. 33, figs. 1-5. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 124, figs. 240, 242-25la. Triatoma (Neotriatoma) limai:Lima, 1940, p. 198. Triatoma circummaculata limai:Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 45, figs. 17, 18. Length of male 15-17, of female 16,5-18,0 ; width of pronotum of male 4 , of female 4,0-4,5 , width of abdomen of male 6 , of female 6,0-6,5 Overall color from dark brown to black, with pale yellow markings on corium and connexivum. Pilosity very short, inconspicuous. Head of general body color, distinctly rugose and granulose, with setae- short, inapparent. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0,5), and slightly longer than pronotum (1:0,9). Anteocular region about two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0,40-0,45); postocular with sides distinctly convex, angularly projecting. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae large, rounded distally, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.1-1,4. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, not projecting beyond middle of genae. Second antennal segment comparatively thick, very slightly flattened, beset with longitudinally arranged stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4,5:3,3:2,5. Rostrum of same color or only slightly lighter than head. Setae of rostrum very short and sparse, except scattered longer ones at apex of third segment. First rostral segment very short, not attaining basal third of distance between apex of antenniferous tubercle and apex of head. Second rostral segment extending to level of anterior margin of eyes, third as long as second, reaching to or even beyond base of neck. First rostral segment subcylindrical, second slightly and third very strongly flattened dorsoventrally, very thin in lateral view. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2,3:2,3-2,4. Neck dark, with a pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum uniformly dark brown, in some cases humeri slightly lighter. Anterior lobe delicately granulose on elevated portions, and without discal or lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum sublaterally directed, subconical, very short. Scutellum of general body color, with distinct median depression. Posterior process subcylindrical, horizontal or slightly upward bent at tip, more than half as long as main body of scutellum, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite. Corium dark brown or blackish, with large basal and apical areas light yellow, connected by narrow yellow line along costal margin. Membrane light brown, fumose, much lighter than dark portions of corium; veins of membrane conspicuously dark. Legs uniformly dark, comparatively short; fore femur six times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter rounded in both sexes, delicately striate transversally, sparsely and inconspicuously pilose. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark brown. Connexivum pale yellow, with transverse black stripe straddling intersegmental suture, the portion occupying hind border of anterior segment smaller than that on anterior portion of posterior segment. Transverse dark markings relatively large, one-half or more than one-half as long as intervening yellow spaces. Light color of connexivum shortly invading urostemites, especially on area of spiracles.