Triatoma maculata (Erichson) Figures 7A-D;. 8B; lOB; 17; 30C, D; 103-105 La Punaise Mouche Bigarree Stoll, 1788, p. 82, pl. 20, fig.140. Conorrhinus maculatus Erichson in Schomburgk, 1848, p. 614. Conorhinus maculatus:StAI, 1859, p. 108. Triatoma maculata:Neiva, 1914, p. 47. Del Ponte, 1930, p. 881, fig.8. Correa and Espinola, 1964, p. 117, figs. 5, 6, 9, 10. Lucena, 1973, p. 176. Galvao, 1973, p. 367, figs. la, le, 3a, 3c, 4a, 4c,. Sa, Sc, 6a, 6c. Cobben and Wygodzinsky, 1975, p. 15, figs. 155, 156. Eutriatoma maculata:Pinto, 1931, p. 90, fig.35. Conorhinus immaculata Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Length of male 16,5-21,5 , of female 17,5-22,0 ; width of pronotum of male 4-5 , of female 4,0-5,5 , width ofabdomen of male and female 5,5-8,0 Overall color from dark brown to black, with light yellow, orange-yellow or light red marks on head, neck, thorax , corium and connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head comparatively wide, very high posteriorly in lateral view, delicately rugose and granulose, especially at sides. Overall color of head from dark brown to black; very rarely uniformly dark, in most specimens dorsally with light pattern elements of variable extension, from very extensive to scarcely perceptible. Head much less than twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0,60,7) and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (l:l.0-1.l). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular (l:0,25-0,35), postocular almost entirely occupied by ocelliferous tubercles with ocelli, its sides rounded but strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, slightly widened behind middle. Genae tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae rounded or wideangled apically. Eyes very large, in lateral view considerable surpassing level of under, and almost attaining level of upper, surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0,9-l.l. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment slightly compressed, beset with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4,2-5,0:2,83,2:l. 9-2,4. Rostrum as dark as head capsule, relatively stout. Setae of rostrum short and sparse on first and second and very numerous and elongate on third segment, as long as diameter of same. First rostral segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments l:l. 9-2,2:0,9-1,0., viz., first segment as long as or slightly longer than third. Neck with pair of lateral light-colored spots. Pronotum not distinctly granulose, its overall color from dark brown to black. Anterior lobe entirely dark, or with discal and lateral tubercles, or only discal tubercles, or also with small area on each side between base of longitudinal carinae and lateral tubercles, orange or yellow. Posterior lobe dark, in most specimens with three pairs of yellow or orangeyellow spots, one pair anterosublateral, one humeral, and one posteromedian. Spots in some specimens confluent to a certain degree, or one or the other pair evanescent, but invariably at least one pair present. Anterior lobe of pronotum with distinct although not large discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections elongate subtriangular, compressed dorsoventrally, anterolaterally directed. Pleura dark, propleura and mesopleura with light spot at hind margin , in some cases spot also on mesopleura. Scutellum entirely dark, coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression; sides of scutellum swollen. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, rounded apically. Hemelytra closely approaching or attaining apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes; their color from light to very dark brown , with veins of membrane and of central portion of corium contrastingly blackish. Clavus dark on basal fourth, contrastingly light colored on remainder. Corium with more or less extensive yellowish or orange longitudinal markings intermixed with dark areas. Membrane fumose, lighter colored than dark portions of corium. Legs uniformly dark. Fore femur 4,5-5,5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female. Venter convex, slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in females, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture. Urosternites from dark brown to black, except small lateral yellow area enclosing spiracles. Connexivum from light yellow to orangeyellow or reddish, with wide transverse black bands on intersegmental sutures, occupying entire width of connexival segments. Light-colored areas occupying from one-half to threefifths of length of respective connexival segment. Male genitalia with endosomal processes of aedeagus lacking apical denticles, their distal portion with irregularly ribbon-shaped sclerotizations .