Triatoma matogrossensis Leite and Barbosa Figures 29E; 106, 107 Triatoma (Eutriatoma) matogrossensis Leite and Barbosa, 1953, p. l, figs. 1-4. Length of male 24,5-28,0 , of female 28-30 ; width of pronotum of male 4,8-6,0, of female 5,5-6,0 ; width of abdomen of male 7-9 , of female 9-10 Overall color dark brown or dark reddish brown, with light yellowish brown areas on neck, hind lobe of pronotum, hemelytra, legs, and connexivum. Pilosity short and sparse, even on legs. Head dark brown, feebly rugose and granulose-punctate, more than twice as long as wide (1:0,4), and much longer than pronotum (1:0,75). Anteocular region four to five times as long as postocular (1:0,2-0,25), postocular with sides almost straight, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, gradually widened on posterior half. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining or closely approaching level of lower surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,3-1,7. Antenniferous tubercles relatively slender, situated at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. First, second, and extreme base of third segment black, remainder contrastingly yellow. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4,75,1:3,1-3,6:2,4-2,8. Rostrum yellowish brown, lighter than head capsule, very slender. First rostral segment falling considerably short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment extending to level of posterior border of eyes. Setae of rostrum short and sparse, only slightly longer at base of upper surface of third segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2,5-2,8:l.2-l.4. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellow spots. Pronotum dark brown or reddish brown, with l+ 1 yellowish brown spots on humeri. Anterior lobe sparsely granulose, with discal tubercles from small but distinct to forming inconspicuous elevations. Lateral tubercles not developed. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third of hind lobe, evanescent posteriorly. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections shortly conical, rounded or almost pointed apically. Scutellum with median depression shallow. Apical process of scutellum short, slightly over half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, narrowly rounded or almost pointed apically. Hemelytra approaching or attaining posterior margin of seventh urotergite in male, approaching base of seventh urotergite in female. Clavus dark brown at base, pale on apical half. Corium light brownish yellow, with area limited by Sc, R + M and R, a subapical spot, and part of veins, dark brown. Membrane fumose, light grayish brown, darker than light areas of corium; veins of membrane dark brown. Legs light yellowish brown; femora subapically with faint but perceptible dark spot or annulus; apex of tibiae darkened. Legs very long and slender; fore femora eight times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male, absent in female. Abdomen wide, lateral portions of urotergites exposed in many specimens. Venter distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, slightly so in male, delicately striate transversally, with distinct although short golden setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival sutures. Urosternites dark brown except small yellowish area enclosing spiracles. Connexivum light yellow or yellowish brown, dorsally with narrow transverse markings straddling intersegmental sutures; these markings very narrowly constricted at middle, widened along connexival suture and in some cases along outer margin posterior to intersegmental sutures. Ventral markings of connexivum faint, reduced in extension.