Triatoma melanocephala Neiva and Pinto Figures 110-112 Triatoma melanocephala Neiva and Pinto, 1923c, p75. Pinto, 1925, p. 59, fig.39; 1931, p. 71 fig.8. Length of male 25,5-26,5 , of female 28 ; width of pronotum of male 6-7 , of female 7 ; width of abdomen of male 9,5-10,0 , of female 10 Overall color from dark brown to black, with yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, hemelytra and connexivum. Pilosity short, sparse, inconspicuous. Pleura and under surface of thorax and abdomen lightly polished. Head black, rugose, delicately granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0,6) and approximately as long as pronotum. Anteocular region from two and onehalf to three times as wide as postocular (1:0,30,4), postocular with sides straight, converging toward behind. Clypeus conspicuously widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, attaining or very slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,8-2,2. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment (remaining not preserved) about three times as long as first, with semierect setae almost as long as diameter of segment. Rostrum as dark as head capsule; first segment extending to level of insertion of antennae, second extending slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical; dorsal surface of second segment, and under surface of apical half of second and entire third segment with dense long hairs, many longer than diameter of respective segments. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.6-1,8:0,7-0,8. Neck dark, with a pair of yellow spots laterally. Pronotum dark brown, with I+ l yellowish brown oval markings on disc of anterior half of posterior lobe, laterad of submedian carinae. Anterior lobe with one pair each of small but distinct discal and lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae relatively short, evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections subconical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, their outer border yellowish. Scutellum uniformly dark. Median depression well developed, narrow. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal; apex slightly upturned, distally rounded. Hemelytra attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite. Color of hemelytra brown; base of clavus, cells of corium, especially that limited by Sc, R + M and R, and base of cells of membrane, darkest; apical two-thirds or threefourths of membranal cells distinctly lighter brown. Most veins of hemelytra contrastingly yellow, most also bordered with yellow; a conspicuous elongate yellow area near base of corium, adjoining claval suture. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, with short setae. Spiracles very close to or adjoining connexival suture. Urosternites uniformly dark, except minute yellow spot enclosing spiracles. Connexival segments with alternate black and light yellow transverse markings. Black markings straddling intersegmental sutures, of irregular shape and longer than yellow markings; the latter closer to posterior than to anterior intersegmental sutures.