Triatoma patagonica Del Ponte Figures 132, 133 Triatoma patagonica Del Ponte, 1929, p. 6, fig.5; 1930, p. 889, pl. 51, figs. 1-3. Wygodzinsky and Abalos, 1950, p. 60, figs. 2, 6E, I, M; 7A-E; 8C; II. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 95, figs. 41, 63, 175, 190-193. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 54, pl. 2, fig.5. Martinez and Cichero, 1972, p. 40, fig.23Eutriatoma (Triatoma) patagonica:Mazza, 1937, p 5, figs. 1-20. Length .of male 17,0-18,5 , of female 18-21 ; width of pronotum of male 3,5-4,0,of female 4,0-4,5 ; width of abdomen ofmale 5-6, of female 6,5-8,0 Overall color blackish brown or black, with yellow or rarely reddish markings on neck, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument sparsely setose, appearing glabrous. Head black, delicate rugose dorsally, sparsely granulose, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,5) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0,8-0,9). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0,4), postocular with sides faintly convex, converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, distinctly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining or slightly surpassing level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:1,45-1,75. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment extending close to level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment flattened, beset with numerous setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3,34,0:2,3-3,0:1,8-2.l. Rostrum as dark as head capsule or more or less reddish. Setae of rostrum very short, except at apex of second and on third segment where setae are more numerous and about as long as diameter of segment, decreasing in length toward apex of third segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of jugae, second extending to level of posterior margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.8-2.l:1,0-1,2. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum polished, black, in some specimens outer margin of anterolateral processes narrowly yellow. Anterior lobe with central portion conspicuously elevated, with l + l obsolescent discal tubercles. Lateral tubercles obsolescent. Posterior lobe distinctly rugose. Submedian carinae extending to middle or posterior third of hind lobe. Humeri slightly elevated, humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, their apex rounded or blunt. Scutellum entirely dark, slightly convex, heavily rugose, its central depression well developed. Posterior process of scutellum about three-fifths as long as main body of sclerite, horizontal, subcylindrical or slightly compressed laterally, rounded at apex. Hemelytra approaching or attaining apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium brownish black, with large yellow subtriangular mark basally, not extending onto clavus. In some specimens, a yellow spot also on apex of corium, connected or not to basal spot by narrow light-colored stripe along costal margin of hemelytron. Membrane almost as dark as or slightly lighter than dark portion of corium, with veins slightly darker than membrane. Legs dark, femora with very narrow complete or incomplete apical annulus yellow . Legs slender, fore femora from six to six and one-half times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of small denticles subapically, hind femora slightly prominent subapically below. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in females. Venter convex, feebly flattened at center in female, shallowly striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjacent or close to connexival suture, distant from latter by not more than their own diameter. Venter black. Connexivum yellow, rarely reddish, light-colored area briefly extending to urotergites and urosternites, in latter including spiracles. Black transverse mark straddling intersegmental sutures, this dark area wide or more or less narrowed or constricted medially, in rare ca .. es divided into two spots.