Triatoma peninsularis Usinger Figures 288; 134-136 Triatoma peninsularis Usinger, 1940, p. 73, Ryckman, 1962, p. 116, pl. 2, fig.N. Triatoma protracta peninsularis:Usinger, 1944, p. 74. Length of male 10,5-11,0 , of female 11-12 ; width of pronotum of male andfemale 2,5-3,0 , width of abdomen ofmale and female 3,5-4,0 Overall color ,dark brown or black, only neck and membrane lighter colored. Body and appendages with short, inconspicuous setae. Head granulose, convex above, as long as pronotum and twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,45-0,50). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0,45-0,50), postocular with sides prominently rounded. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, strongly widened posteriorly; arcuate impression at base of clypeus absent. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. Upper surface of head evenly convex above, in lateral view without perceptible depression at level of base of clypeus; head ventrally not salient behind eyes. Eyes Yery small, in lateral view not attaining level of upper and lower surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,35-1,50. Antenniferous tubercles situated at level of center of anteocular region. First antennal segment very short, barely exceeding middle of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with short adpressed setae. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2,3-2,5:2,3-2,5:2,0-2,3. Rostrum with long hairs, not forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments I:1,2-1,3:0,6. Neck dark, lighter laterally and below. Pronotum of general body color, smooth, trapezoidal, carinate laterally, only very slightly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe only faintly convex, without discal and lateral tubercles, slightly granulose. Posterior lobe rugose, submedian carinae not attammg hind border. Humeri rounded, slightly elevated. Anterolateral angles very little pronounced, rounded. Scutellum with central portion depressed, limited by distinct carinae. Apical process rugose, short, about half as long as main body of scutellum, subconical, its apex deflected. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium of general body color, slightly lighter on area adjacent to clavus, and on apical half of the latter; membrane smoky brown. Legs unicolorous, short and stout; fore femur 3,4-3,8 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two pairs of denticles subapically. Tibiae without spongy fossulae, in either sex. Venter convex or very slightly flattened. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of irregular, shallow, transversal wrinkles. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by several times their diameter . Connexivum twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. Entire abdomen of general color, intersegmental connexival sutures almost imperceptibly lighter.