Triatoma brasiliensis Neiva Figures 43-45 Triatoma brasiliensis Neiva, 1911d, p. 461; 1914, p 33. Pinto, 1925a, p. 53, figs. 11, 34-36. Lucena,1958, p. 311; 1970, p. 81Conorhinus brasi\iensis:Patton and Cragg, 1913, p. 495. Triatoma brasiliensis melanica Neiva and Lent, 1941, p. 72. Triatoma brasiliensis macromelasoma Galviio, 1956, p. 456, fig.I. Length of male 22-25 , of female 23,0-25,5 ; width of pronotum of male 4-5 , of female 4,5-5,5 ; width of abdomen of male 6-9 , of female 7,5-10,0 Overall color from dark brown to black, in some cases lighter brown dorsally; brownish yellow markings on neck, pronotum, legs, hemelytra, and connexivum. Integument with sparse, short, yellowish or black setae. Head dark brown or black, in some cases tinged with light brown dorsally; rugose dorsally and laterally, slightly granulose. Head twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,50-0,55) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0,85-0,95). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0,25), postocular with sides slightly rounded. Clypeus distinctly but not abruptly widened behind middle. Genae tapering distally but their apex narrowly rounded, not pointed, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae widely rounded apically. Eyes in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and remote from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2,0-2,25. Antenniferous tubercles inserted at or slightly before middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment subcylindrical, beset with declivous setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3,6-4,2:2,4-2,7:1,9-2,2. Rostrum thick, as dark as head capsule, with mediumsized hairs on first and on underside of second segment, and with long and very numerous hairs on upper surface of second and on entire third segment; hairs especially dense dorsally at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment extending to level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second to level of apex of middle of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,7-1,9:0,9-1,05. Neck dark, with a pair of light-colored spots laterally. Pronotum very sparsely granulose, from dark brown to black, in some cases entirely dark, more frequently with some or all of the following yellow:collar, anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of fore lobe, submedian carinae along their entire length, a pair of large, elongate, subrectangular markings on hind lobe laterad of carinae, and narrower markings parallel to lateral margins. Anterior lobe with very low discal tubercles, difficult to perceive when concolorous with overall surface of fore lobe; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly angular. Scutellum dark brown, posterior process with yellow point in light-colored specimens. Scutellum coarsely rugose, with distinct central depression. Posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, but slightly compressed laterally, apex slightly elevated, rounded. Hemelytra extending to variable levels from base to apex of seventh urotergite. Corium light yellow, with dark areas of variable extension, mainly in lateral area limited by Sc, R + M and free portion of R, and on central area adjoining bases of membranal cells; areas mentioned joined in some specimens. Clavus entirely dark. Membrane fumose, from light yellow to light yellowish brown, as light as or slightly darker than light-colored areas of corium. Veins of membrane black; lumen of cells either uniformly light or, in most specimens, with more or less extensive, irregularly shaped sooty spot extending over central portion of cells. Legs dark, with light markings on trochantera, on middle and rarely also at base of femora, as well as apically on tibiae. Extension of light areas variable, from extensive to very reduced and completely absent in melanic forms. Legs slender, fore femora from six to seven times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora salient below subapically or with one or two weak denticles. Male with spongy fossulae on tibiae of fore and mid legs; absent in females. Abdomen slightly flattened below in both sexes, delicately striate transversally, sparsely setose. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Abdomen of female very wide, lateral portions of urotergites exposed. Venter dark brown or black, in some specimens suffused with light brown; spiracles enclosed in minute yellow area. Connexival segments on disc with yellow rectangular or subtriangular yellow spot; wide black spot enclosing intersegmental sutures; yellow and black spots of about identical size, occupying entire width of segments.