Linshcosteus kali, new species Figures SK, L; 15A; 208, 209 DIAGNOSIS:Linshcosteus kali differs from the most similar species, L. confumus and L. costalis, by the conspicuously convex lower surface of the postocular region, from costalis furthermore by its uniformly dark corium, and from confumus by its relatively short rostrum and its larger eyes DESCRIPTION. Length of male 19 , of female 20 ; width of pronotum of male and female 4,5 ; width of abdomen of male 8,8-9,0 , of female 10 Overall color very dark brown or black. Pilosity short and inconspicuous. Head with very numerous setiferous granules, except on narrow strip along middle ventrally. Head over twice as long as wide (1:0,40-0,45) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0,7-0,8). Anteocular region three and one-half to four times as long as postocular (1:0,25-0,30); postocular with sides faintly rounded, widest behind middle. Postocular region strongly convex below. Oypeus gently widened on posterior half, not strongly elevated in side view. Genae narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. Jugae acute but not pointed apically. Eyes in lateral view attaining but not surpassing level of under surface, but distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2,0-2,3. First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna] segments 1:4,7-5,1:2,7-3,1:2,2-2,4. Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of segments except third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment. Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; apex of second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes; third segment not extending to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,55-1,85:0,50-0,65. Pronotum black, its sides carinate. Anterior lobe not strongly elevated; ridges granulose. Posterior lobe rugose-granulose; submedian carinae not extending beyond middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles broadly rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subtriangular, pointed. Scutellum black, heavily rugose transversally, its center only faintly depressed. Posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, elongate conical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra of male and female falling short of apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus and corium black; membrane fumose, very dark brown; veins yellowish brown. Legs uniformly black, slender; fore femora 6,0-7,5 times as long as wide. Venter as described for L. costalis. DISTRIBUTION:South India:Madras State:Coimbatore, 1400 ft., April 5, 1963, Nov., 1963, Sept., 1966 (P. Susai Nathan; AMNH), one male, holotype, one female, allotype, two males, paratypes, one dissected male; one male, paratype, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro. BIOLOGY:Unknown. 0BSERVA TION:Although the differences from the superficially rather similar L. costalis and L. confumus are slight, they are constant; the type series of kali is uniform for the diagnostic and key characters. ETYMOLOGY:This species is named for the Hindu goddess, Kali. DIPETALOGASTER USINGER Dipetalogaster Usinger, 1939, p. 40; 1944, p. 40. Lent and Jurberg, 1972, p. 465. Triatomini. Large sized (33-42 ). Body not flattened. Overall color dark. Body surface smooth, not granulose; setae short. Head elongate subcylindrical. Antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular portion of head. Rostrum as long as head, extending to level of prosternum. First and third rostral segments short, second elongate. Third i:ostral segment with double invaginated flasklike rostral organ. Anterior lobe of pronotum with discal tubercles; humeral angles rounded. Prosternum with stridulatory sulcus. Posterior projection of scutellum tubercle-like. Legs strong, elongate. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Abdomen wide, with lateral portions not covered by hemelytra. In both sexes, dorsal connexival plates normal; ventral connexival plates not developed. Wide longitudinally pleated connexival membrane connecting dorsal connexival plates to ventral sclerites. In unfed specimens, anterior portion of urotergites overlapping posterior portion of preceding urotergites; urotergites connected by expandable membrane. Median process of pygophore subrectangular, truncate. Fifth instar nymph:With the characters of the tribe; third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; rostrum of normal length, first segment much shorter than second, third with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus well developed; antenniferous tubercles situated at center of anteocular region; abdomen dorsally without median tubercles. First instar nymph:As described for tribe; rostrum attaining prosternum, slender; third segment with paired rostral organ; stridulatory sulcus present; hind tarsi apically with long, delicate sensory hairs.