Panstrongylus howardi (Neiva) Figures 227-229 Triatoma howardi Neiva, 1911b, p. 240. Panstrongylus howardi:Pinto, 1931, p. Ill. Lent, 1960, p. 164, figs. 1-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 404, figs. 101-115. Male (female unknown). Length 25-29 , width of pronotum 6,0-6,5 , of abdomen 8,5-11,0 Overall color dark brown or black, with reddish or yellowish areas on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and abdomen with connexivum. Body surface with very short setae. Head entirely black, coarsely rugose on entire dorsal surface including clypeus. Head from one and one-half times to almost twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0,55-0,70), and distinctly shorter than pronotum (l:l.15-1,25). Anteocular region slightly over twice as long as postocular (l:0,40-0,45), postocular short and wide, with sides converging toward behind. Clypeus slightly widened posteriorly. Genae narrowly rounded apically, not quite extending to level of apex of clypeus. Jugae small, pointed, hooklike. Head almost flat above in lateral view, not strongly elevated. Eyes large, in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.0-1,35. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae dark brown. First antennal segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined stiff setae up to twice as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3,03,5:2,5:2,0. Rostrum comparatively stout. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of middle of neck. First and most of second rostral segment with very short and inconspicuous setae, apex of second segment dorsally and entire third segment with hairs as Jong as diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,40-1,55:0,50. Pronotum black; orange-red on anterolateral processes, discal tubercles of anterior Jobe and lateral carinae with lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe with l + l submedian triangular spots enclosing posterior two-thirds of submedian carinae, as well as I+ I large lateral markings, including humeral area and region immediately anterior to it but without attaining, or only narrowly attaining, transverse furrow of pronotum. Anterior lobe of pronotum slightly convex, elevated areas not prominent. Discal tubercles well developed, rounded; lateral tubercles distinct although smaller than discal ones. Posterior lobe irregularly wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending close to posterior margin of sclerite. Humeral angles broadly rounded, slightly explanate. Anterolateral projections of pronotum prominent, subconical, rounded apically. Scutellum black, strongly rugose, its depression shallow, not extending to base of posterior process. Process dark at base, reddish on apical half, about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum, subhorizontal, almost cylindrical, slightly compressed laterally and with apex very faintly swollen, rounded. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, their overall color pale yellowish brown, extreme base of corium and spot close to apex dark, cu-pcu cross-vein with short adjacent portions of other veins conspicuously darkened; apical two-thirds or three-fourths of membranal cells with some adjacent areas also darker brown. Legs uniformly black, slender, fore femora seven times as long as wide. Femora with slight subapical protuberance but without denticles. Minute spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae (probably absent in female). Venter convex, almost imperceptibly flattened longitudinally along middle, delicately striate transversally; setae short, inconspicuous. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their own diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III faint. Venter of abdomen black, lateral portion of urostemites light yellowish or reddish brown, light portion forming continuous band. Connexivum light reddish brown, each segment anteriorly with subrectangular black spot adjacent to intersegmental suture; spots occupying from one-third to one-half of total length of respective segment, extending over entire width of sclerite on under surface, but anterolaterally situated on dorsal connexival segments. GENITALIA:Endosoma processes narrow, denticulate apically. Vesica large, semiglobose, heavily sclerotized.