Triatoma amicitiae@ unicolorous, not 
Triatoma arthurneivai@ with orange-red subsemicircular spots in central portion of each segment and adjacent to outer margin, and black marks in shape of wide transverse bands on intersegmental sutures widened toward inner connexival suture; lightcolored areas longer than dark ones, at least along outer margin. 
Triatoma barberi @ from dark red to orange-red, segments with black markings of varied extension, from occupying entire anterior four-fifths of segment to somewhat reduced with two pointed posterior projections, the outer one shorter than the inner one , and to broken up into two dark spots, the outer one small, situated at anteroextemal angle of segment, the inner one large, elongate, adjacent to inner border of connexival segment Dark markings in no case forming continuous longitudinal 
Triatoma bouvieri@ light reddish brown. 
Triatoma breyeri@ pale yellow, entirely so ventrally, but dorsally with disc of each connexival segment spotted with dark, in most specimens spot restricted to area adjacent to connexival suture, in others extending to a larger or smaller degree to outer area of 
Triatoma carrioni@ black, with narrow transversal reddish spots straddling intersegmental 
Triatoma cavernicola@ delicately creased longitudinally along outer margin. 
Triatoma costalimai@ extensively dark brown; connexival segments each with orange-red marking of variable width extending along outer connexival border; dark portion of connexivum advancing towards external border along intersegmental 
Triatoma deanei@ pale yellow, with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment, and darkened along connexival suture dorsally but not ventrally; some of the intersegmental sutures of connexivum slightly and narrowly darkened, markings similar to musical 
Triatoma dispar@ black, each segment with two orangeyellow marks:one, incomplete, on anterior third of disc of segment, adjacent to outer but not attaining inner border of segment, the other large spot extending over entire width of segment, situated on its basal third, adjoining intersegmental suture which is also light colored; dark markings (in some specimens) much reduced, as shown in figure 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ orange or rarely pale yellow, with areas of lighter color slightly advancing onto urosternites along intersegmental sutures. 
Triatoma flavida@ light yellowish brown; in wellpreserved specimens each segment with two dark spots:a large anterior one adjacent to anterior margin of segment, irregularly shaped posteriorly, extending across entire width of segment although darkest along outer margin, and one very small dot, obsolescent in some specimens, adjacent to posterior border of segment, remote from lateral 
Triatoma guazu@ black, disc of each segment with large subrectangular yellow spot, extending ventrally from outer margin to connexival suture and enclosing spiracle on adjacent portion of urosternite; dorsally, yellow spot not attaining connexival suture. 
Triatoma incrassata@ entirely yellow ventrally and broadly along entire connexival margin dorsally; inner portion of dorsal connexival segments of general body 
Triatoma indictiva@ from piceous to black; posterior sixth or seventh of each connexival segment narrowly reddish, reddish color extending on to suture; markings identical ventrally and dorsally, not extending on urosternites. 
Triatoma infestans@ black, each segment with large yellowspot, remote from anterior but closely approaching posterior border of segment and adjoining connexival suture; yellow area brieflyextending on urostemite mainly at area of 
Triatoma lecticularia@ with distinct adpressed 
Triatoma lenti@ black, with disc of each segment occupied by yellow or orange-yellow spot; size of light-colored spots variable , attaining or not connexival suture, and almost invariably remote from intersegmental sutures and generally closer to anterior than to posterior 
Triatoma leopoldi@ yellowish or orange-red, dorsally and ventrally with large dark spot at center of eachsegment, spots not attaining outer border orintersegmental 
Triatoma limai@ pale yellow, with transverse black stripe straddling intersegmental suture, the portion occupying hind border of anterior segment smaller than that on anterior portion of posterior segment. 
Triatoma longipennis@ dark brown or black, each segment on posterior half or third with yellow or orange-red irregularly shaped marking adjoining abdominal margin and extending or not to connexival suture. 
Triatoma maculata@ from light yellow to orangeyellow or reddish, with wide transverse black bands on intersegmental sutures, occupying entire width of connexival segments. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ light yellow or yellowish brown, dorsally with narrow transverse markings straddling intersegmental sutures; these markings very narrowly constricted at middle, widened along connexival suture and in some cases along outer margin posterior to intersegmental sutures. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ black, posterior third or half of each segment with subquadrate orange red marking. 
Triatoma mexicana@ yellow, with irregularly shaped black markings on anterior third or half of each segment adjacent to intersegmental suture. 
Triatoma migrans@ reddish, dorsally and ventrally with subrectangular transverse dark spot at center of each 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ light yellowish brown, disc of each segment dorsally with dark anvil-shaped spot at center, reduced in size on first and last visible segments. 
Triatoma nitida@ orange-yellow, each segment at middle with large medially constricted dark spot extending across entire width of connexival 
Triatoma obscura@ dark brown, segments with posterior fourth occupied by narrow transverse yellowish band, wider at external than at internal border of segment. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ unusually wide, black; connexival plates posteriorly with orange-red markings of varied size , in most cases subtriangular and longest along outer connexival 
Triatoma patagonica@ yellow, rarely reddish, light-colored area briefly extending to urotergites and urosternites, in latter including spiracles. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. 
Triatoma petrochii@ dark brown, segments on disc with large yellowish spot occupying two-thirds of surface of each segment, approaching but not adjoining posterior and remote from anterior intersegmental suture. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ unusually wide , black, connexival plates posteriorly with red or orange-red markings extending over entire width of segment, their shape varying from transverse band-shaped to subtriangular, with apex of triangle directed cephalad. 
Triatoma picturata@ yellowish or reddish orange, in most specimens examined dorsally with subrectangular black spot on anterolateral portion of each connexival segment, adjoining outer but distant from inner connexival margin . 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ light yellow or reddish orange, with wide transversal black bands across entire width of connexival segment, on intersegmental sutures. 
Triatoma pugasi@ light brown, not 
Triatoma recurva@ wide, in many specimens strongly reflexed. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ black, each segment with large central red or orange spot attaining external margin of segment. 
Triatoma sordida@ dorsally with transverse black marks, 
Triatoma spinolai@ red, either entirely so, or especially dorsally, each connexival plate on disc with black spot , variable in size, attaining or not lateral margin of sclerite. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ marked with black and light yellowishbrown or reddish brown. 
Triatoma venosa@ black, with narrow transversal yellowish red markings straddling intersegmental sutures, with red area occupying anterior segment larger than that on posterior 
Triatoma vitticeps@ extensively dark brown, disc of segments with yellowish or light orange-red transverse markings distinctly smaller than dark areas; light markings coming closer to posterior than to anterior intersegmental sutures. 
Triatoma williami@ pale yellow, segments with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment, and dorsally but not ventrally darkened along connexival 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ uniformly dark, almost twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ uniformly dark, almost twice as wide dorsally as ventrally. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ as in generic description . 
Panstrongylus Berg@ free, its segments normally developed. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ dark brown or black, with orange-red irregularly shaped spots in posterolateral angle of each connexival plate, spots increasing in size from anterior to posterior segments; spots larger on under than on upper connexival surface in some specimens. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ yellowish brown, anterior half or third ofeach connexival plate with black subrectangularspot, adjacent to intersegmental suture. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ light yellowish brown with black subrectangular marks on anterior third of dorsal connexival plates, of varied shape, frequently indented posteriorly. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ orange brown; anterior half or third of each connexival plate with dark brown or black irregularly shaped subrectangular spot, adjacent to intersegmental suture. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ yellow or light yellowish brown. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ light reddish brown, each segment anteriorly with subrectangular black spot adjacent to intersegmental suture; spots occupying from one-third to one-half of total length of respective segment, extending over entire width of sclerite on under surface, but anterolaterally situated on dorsal connexival segments. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ light orangebrown; each segment anteriorly with short black marking adjacent to intersegmental suture; posterior margin of dark spots deeply emarginate on upper connexival plates, straight across or oblique on ventral connexival plates. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ yellow or light yellowish brown. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ yellowish brown, anterior third of half of each connexival segment with dark brown or black irregularly subrectangular spot adjacent to intersegmental suture. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ black; connexival plates with transversal red markings on posterior fourth dorsally and on posterior third ventrally. 
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@ spotted with light and dark, the light portions orange or rust-red and yellow. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ reddish brown; anterior half or third of each connexival segment with black, subrectangular spot adjoining intersegmental suture. 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ wide dorsally , visible portion of ventral connexival plates narrow . 
Rhodnius Stal@ wide dorsally, ventral portion partially or entirely covered by stemite, in former case much narrower than dorsal portion. 
Rhodnius brethes@ with ventral portion narrowly visible, black dorsally and ventrally, each segment with orange or reddish rectangular spot on posterior half. 
Rhodnius domesticus@ only very narrowly visible from below. 
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@ narrowly visible from below. 
Rhodnius nasutus@ narrowly visible from below, dorsally with not very prominent darker spots on anterolateral angle of each segment ; these spots in some cases with pointed posterior projection, or of washed-out appearance. 
Rhodnius neglectus@ narrowly visible from below, dorsally with anterior half or two-thirds brown, theremainder yellow. 
Rhodnius pallescens@ light yellowish brown, anterior half of each segment with rectangular dark spot, this spot in some cases lighter at center. 
Rhodnius paraensis@ narrowly visible from below. 
Rhodnius prolixus@ narrowly visible from below, or completely covered by urosternites. 
Rhodnius robustus@ narrowly visible from below or completely covered by urostemites; dorsally light yellowish brown, each segment with large brownish black spot occupying at least anterior half of each segment, with posterior narrowly pointed projection. 
Psammolestes Bergroth@ wide dorsally, ventral portion partially covered by urosternites. 
Cavernicola Barber@ wide dorsally, perceptible ventral portion very narrow, only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates. 
Bolbodera Valdes@ wide, without dorsal longitudinal ridge, its margins reflexed. 
Bolbodera scabrosa@ pink or red, with anterolateral angles of segments IV and V black; connexival segments VI-IX entirely 
BELMINUS ST@ wide dorsally, perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-third to one-fourth as wide as dorsal connexival plates. 
Parabelminus Lent@ very wide dorsally, connexival segments as wide as one-fifth of width of abdomen; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments. 
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@ very wide dorsally; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments. 
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@ dorsally and ventrally with narrow transversal yellowish bands before each intersegmental suture, widest near outer margin of connexival segments. 
Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo@ wide dorsally; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates, the latter without ridges. 
