Triatomini Jeannel@ with veins distinct. 
Triatoma amicitiae@ yellowish, lighter colored than rest of body, only its apex darkened. 
Triatoma arthurneivai@ black; clavus black on basal third or fourth, light grayish brown on remainder, this color extending to adjoining portion of corium. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ yellowish brown, with irregular central spot of varied size, extending to costal margin of hemelytron or separated from margin by more or less wide light colored stripe connecting subbasal and subapical light spots, or the latter separated by extended central dark spot. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ light yellow, with dark areas of variable extension, mainly in lateral area limited by Sc, R + M and free portion of R, and on central area adjoining bases of membranal cells; areas mentioned joined in some specimens. 
Triatoma carrioni@ with one subbasal and one subapical very irregularly shaped transverse yellowish marking; apex of corium also yellowish. 
Triatoma cavernicola@ almost entirely pale yellow, with one elongate black spot subapically and, in some specimens, with a small and faint spot at center. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ dark brown or blackish, red at base and with smaller reddish spot subapically; these spots in some individuals more extended and occasionally confluent. 
Triatoma costalimai@ and clavus black, apex of corium bordered with reddish, and conspicuous orange-red marking subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell. 
Triatoma deanei@ light yellowish brown with veins mostly dark, central portion of corium also darkened, dark area extending apicad and proximad along cell formed by Sc, R+M and R. 
Triatoma dimidiata@ from pale to orange-yellow, its extreme apex black, and with a dark central spot which varies from barely perceptible to very extensive, forming an almost complete transversal band across hemelytron. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ dark brown or black; membrane fumose, somewhat lighter brown. 
Triatoma guasayana@ largelypale yellow, irregularly darkened at center,with veins of central portion conspicuouslydark. 
Triatoma hegneri@ without perceptible setae, yellow, with large central dark spot of variable size but not reaching costal margin; apex of corium dark. 
Triatoma indictiva@ with short, inconspicuous concolorous setae. 
Triatoma infestans@ in most specimens with one pale yellow spot subbasally and invariably with yellow subapical spot situated at apex of cell formed by r and m. 
Triatoma lecticularia@ with large central spot of general color, with basal and subapical spots orange-yellow; outer border of corium narrowly bordered with light color; entire surface of corium with conspicuous adpressed black setae . 
Triatoma lenti@ and clavus black, membrane fumose, dark brown, with black veins; small yellowish stripe between apical portion of corium and adjacent area of membrane. 
Triatoma leopoldi@ yellowish red at base and subapically. 
Triatoma limai@ dark brown or blackish, with large basal and apical areas light yellow, connected by narrow yellow line along costal margin. 
Triatoma longipennis@ with short (0,1 ) adpressed setae , or somewhat longer (0,2 ) decumbent ones. 
Triatoma maculata@ with more or less extensive yellowish or orange longitudinal markings intermixed with dark areas. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ light brownish yellow, with area limited by Sc, R + M and R, a subapical spot, and part of veins, dark brown. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ with long (0,3-0,4 ) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black,with one basal triangular and one subapicalsubquadrate spot red or orange-red. 
Triatoma mexicana@ yellow, including deflexed portion at its base, with large black spot along R extending almost 
Triatoma migrans@ dark at base, at apex and along extemal margin, and with irregularly shaped large central spot dark. 
Triatoma neotomae@ without perceptible setae, orange or pale yellow with large dark central spot which is longer than wide; dark also base of clavus and apex of corium. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ with small elongate dark markings in lumen of cells; apical half of clavus also dark. 
Triatoma nitida@ without perceptible setae, from pale to orange-yellow, with large central dark spot which is longer than wide; dark pigment also at base of clavus and on apex of corium. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ with numerous short (0,1-0,2 ) decumbent or adpressed setae , most of its surface yellowish white, faintly tinged with orange at base, dark at extreme apex. 
Triatoma patagonica@ brownish black, with large yellow subtriangular mark basally, not extending onto clavus. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ of general body color, slightly lighter on area adjacent to clavus, and on apical half of the latter; membrane smoky brown. 
Triatoma petrochii@ dark brown, with irregularly shaped large light yellow markings basally and subapically; entire costal margin narrowly yellow. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ with numerous long (0,3-0,4 ) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black, with one basal triangular and one subapical subquadrate spot red or orange-red. 
Triatoma picturata@ with decumbent or adpressed very short setae (0,1-0,2 ), its overall color dark brown to black, with one large subtriangular basal and one irregularly shaped subapical mark orange-red. 
Triatoma platensis@ tinged with light yellow, sparsely spotted with dark. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ with subbasal and subapical spots yellow or reddish. 
Triatoma pugasi@ light yellowish brown, extensively brown fumose on basal half and at extreme apex. 
Triatoma rubida@ dark, rarely unicolorous, in most cases with large triangular area at base, most of costal margin, and small subapical spot, light colored. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ granulose, from dark brown to black, its entire outer margin delicately bordered with orange-red. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ black, with basal and subapical light-colored spot of variable size, spots connected by narrow lightcolored line along margin of hemelytron. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ with sparse, short, inconspicuous setae; basal triangle reddish orange or yellowish, a large central area dark brown and extending over entire width of corium, a smaller subapical spot orange-red or yellowish, extreme apex of corium dark; clavus dark on basal, light brown on apical half. 
Triatoma sinica@ dark, with small orange-colored narrow subbasal spot and subapical Ushaped spot. 
Triatoma sordida@ with triangular basal spot yellow, and with apex also yellow, or not, or corium entirely yellowish with only veins on apical two-thirds of corium conspicuously darkened. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ light orangebrown, in some cases basally tinged with red, and with elongate wide black markings along some veins and in cells. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ with light markings basally or subbasally or both, subapically, and in some cases also narrowly along costal margin. 
Triatoma williami@ light yellowish brown with veins dark, in some places veins also bordered with dark. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ dark brown, with extensive areas subbasally, subapically and at center, reddish. 
Linshcosteus carnifex@ black; membrane fumose, dark brown, veins yellowish brown. 
Linshcosteus chota@ dark; membrane fumose, somewhat lighter than corium. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ and clavus uniformly dark brown or black, membrane fumose, dark brown. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ as light as or slightly lighter than membrane, dark at extreme apex. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ and clavus pale yellow, except cell adjoining clavus and extreme apex of corium which are brown. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ yellowish brown, at center with large, irregularly shaped dark brown spot; apex of corium equally dark brown. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ and membrane black; corium with red spots at base and subapically. 
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@ streaked with brown mostly along veins; membrane dotted with dark, outer membranal cell with compact dark area subbasally. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ dark reddish brown, light reddish brown at base and narrowly along margin, as well as an irregular reddish spot subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell. 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ darker than membrane, covered with numerous long setae. 
RHODNIINI PINTO@ with veins distinct. 
Rhodnius Stal@ with short inconspicuous setae. 
CAVERNICOLINI USINGER@ with veins obsolescent. 
Cavernicola pilosa@ more than twothirds of length of hemelytron. 
Bolbodera scabrosa@ irregularly rugose, more strongly so on basal angle, falling distinctly short of level of apex of inner cell of membrane, and extending to level of center of fifth connexival segment. 
BELMINUS ST@ heavily rugose transversally. 
Belminus costaricensis@ over half as long as hemelytron, attaining level of apex of third visible connexival segment, and almost attaining level of apex of inner cell of membrane, the latter not widened subapically. 
Belminus herreri@ over half as long as hemelytra, attaining level of center of third visible connexival segment, and falling considerably short of apex of inner cell of membrane. 
Belminus peruvianus@ half as long as hemelytron, its apex attaining level of extreme base of third visible abdominal tergite, and extending only slightly beyond level of middle of internal cell of membrane, the latter cell slightly widened subapically. 
Belminus rugulosus@ approximately half as long as hemelytron, its apex attaining level of center of third visible connexival segment, and approaching level of apex of inner membranal cell, the latter comparatively wide. 
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@ distinctly pilose; general color of hemelytra dark, membrane speckled with whitish. 
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@ and basal third of clavus piceous; corium reddish at base, conspicuously yellowish white apically. 
