Triatoma arthurneivai@ falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma barberi @ very short, attaining only two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment subcylindrical, beset with declivous setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma breyeri@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma cavernicola@ light colored, falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment entirely dark. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ very short, not projecting beyond middle of genae. 
Triatoma costalimai@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma deanei@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. 
Triatoma delpontei@ falling considerably short of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ from almost attaining to very slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma guasayana@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment compressed, beset with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. 
Triatoma guazu@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma hegneri@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus, appearing bare, 
Triatoma incrassata@ extending beyond two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma indictiva@ falling short of apex of clypeus; second segment only with adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma infestans@ approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed bristles not more than half as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma lecticularia@ falling short of apex of clypeus; second segment with short hairs only. 
Triatoma lenti@ attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma limai@ very short, not projecting beyond middle of genae. 
Triatoma longipennis@ from attaining to slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma maculata@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma mexicana@ falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma neotomae@ short, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous inclined setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma nitida@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma obscura@ blackish, second dark reddish brown. 
Triatoma oliveirai@ approaching level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff decumbent hairs about as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma patagonica@ extending close to level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ very short, barely exceeding middle of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma petrochii@ appearing unusually short, extending only slightly beyond half the distance from its base to apex of head, 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ extending slightly but distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma picturata@ attaining or shortly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment. 
Triatoma platensis@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma protracta@ very short, barely exceeding middle of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus, second slightly compressed, with numerous short adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma recurva@ falling short of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma rubida@ attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with short, stiff, decumbent hairs. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ distinctly projecting beyond apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma ryckmani@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ falling slightly short of apex of clypeus; second segment with short hairs only. 
Triatoma sordida@ falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment subcylindrical, beset with numerous inclined setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma spinolai@ slender, almost glabrous, extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ with apex very close to level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous short adpressed setae and other, decumbent ones as long as or slightly longer than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma williami@ falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus; second antenna) segment 4,5 times as long as first (remaining not preserved). 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined bristles, shorter than diameter of segment. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment beset with short inclined bristles shorter than diameter of article. 
Linshcosteus carnifex@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. 
Linshcosteus chota@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae as long as diameter of segment. 
Linshcosteus confumus@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Linshcosteus costalis@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Linshcosteus kali@ falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ attaining level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined stiff setae longer than diameter of segment, some more than twice as long, and also with numerous shorter sensory hairs. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by about one-third of its own length. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ slightly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with stiff inclined setae about as long as diameter of segment, as well as with numerous sensory hairs. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ unusually long, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by close to one-half of its own length. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus; second segment with inclined stiff setae up to twice as long as diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ almost attaining level of apex of clypeus; second with stiff setae as long as diameter of segment, and, mostly on under surface, with numerous short sensory hairs. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ reddish brown, falling short of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ approaching level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by one-third of its own length; second segment with inclined stiff setae and numerous short sensory hairs. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second antennal segment with inclined stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment as well as with numerous dedicate short sensory hairs. 
Rhodnius paraensis@ yellowish brown; second and basal three-fifths of third black, apical portion of third whitish; fourth white with short basal annulus dark. 
Cavernicola Barber@ short; the remaining progressively longer from second to fourth. 
