Triatomini Jeannel@ from falling short of to slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, the latter widened at base, narrow apically. 
Triatoma amicitiae@ slightly tapering distally, their apex rounded, extending to level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma arthurneivai@ narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma barberi @ narrowly tapered apically, almost attaining apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ tapering distally but their apex narrowly rounded, not pointed, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma breyeri@ narrowly rounded apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma carrioni@ narrowly tapering apically, in some cases pointed, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma cavernicola@ narrowly tapering apically but not pointed. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ large, rounded distally, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma costalimai@ pointed, projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma deanei@ narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma delpontei@ pointed, heavily sclerotized distally, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma dispar@ narrow, rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ blunt apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma flavida@ attaining level of apex of clypeus, narrowly tapering apically but not pointed. 
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@ tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma guasayana@ narrowly tapering or pointed distally, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma guazu@ narrowly rounded apically, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma hegneri@ tapering distally, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma incrassata@ narrowly tapered anteriorly, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma infestans@ rounded distally, slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma lenti@ narrowly rounded apically, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma leopoldi@ pointed apically. 
Triatoma limai@ large, rounded distally, slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma longipennis@ narrowly tapering apically, either attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus, or falling slightly short of it. 
Triatoma maculata@ tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . 
Triatoma mazzottii@ narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, attaining or very slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma mexicana@ narrowly tapered apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma migrans@ rounded apically in lateral view, considerably surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma neotomae@ conspicuously rugose transversally, tapered apically, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ blunt apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma nitida@ conspicuously rugose transversally, tapered at apex, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma obscura@ slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, their apex narrowly tapered, almost pointed. 
Triatoma oliveirai@ narrowly rounded apically, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ very narrowly tapering apically, pointed in some specimens. 
Triatoma patagonica@ narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ narrowly rounded apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma petrochii@ narrowly tapering or pointed apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ narrowly rounded distally, attaining or very rarely surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma picturata@ very narrowly tapering apically, in some cases pointed, attaining or slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma platensis@ pointed, heavily sclerotized distally, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma protracta@ narrowly tapered apically, not attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ tapering or pointed apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma pugasi@ narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma recurva@ pointed apically, falling short of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma ryckmani@ with inner margin light colored, their apex pointed, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma sinica@ tapering but not pointed apically, slightly but distinctly surpassFIG. 
Triatoma sordida@ narrowly tapering or rarely pointed apically, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma spinolai@ narrowly rounded apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ blunt apically, falling distinctly short of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma venosa@ rounded distally, almost attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, attaining or slightly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma williami@ narrowly tapering apically, distinctly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ tapering apically but not pointed, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Linshcosteus carnifex@ narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Linshcosteus chota@ narrowly tapering apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Linshcosteus confumus@ narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Linshcosteus costalis@ narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Linshcosteus kali@ narrowly tapering apically, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ very narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed, distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ narrowly rounded apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ narrowly tapering apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ very narrowly tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ narrowly rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ narrowly rounded apically, not quite extending to level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ narrowly tapering apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ narrowly rounded apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ very narrowly tapering apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ narrowly rounded apically, not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@ tapering distally, falling short of apex of clypeus. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ narrowly rounded apically, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ narrowly tapering apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. 
RHODNIINI PINTO@ from slightly to considerably surpassing apex of clypeus, the latter slightly but distinctly widened apically. 
Rhodnius Stal@ situated below level of clypeus, slightly surpassing the latter apically. 
Psammolestes coreodes@ conspicuous, strongly diverging, considerably surpassing clypeus. 
Psammolestes tertius@ conspicuous, strongly divergent, surpassing clypeus considerably. 
CAVERNICOLINI USINGER@ inapparent, not extending beyond apex of clypeus. 
BOLBODERINI USINGER@ salient, large, spinelike or platelike, projecting beyond apex of clypeus at least by distance equal to width of clypeus apically. 
Bolbodera Valdes@ pointed, very slightly compressed laterally at base, surpassing clypeus, the latter widened subbasally, tapering at base; bucculae fully exposed. 
BELMINUS ST@ compressed laterally, platelike, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus. 
Parabelminus Lent@ compressed laterally, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus, and completely covering bucculae. 
MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ@ compressed laterally, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus, and completely covering bucculae. 
ALBERPROSENIINI MARTINEZ AND CARCAVALLO@ inconspicuous, not projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus. 
Alberprosenia Martinez and Carcavallo@ inconspicuous. 
