Triatoma mexicana@ black, with yellow markings on neck, corium, and connexivum. 
Triatoma neotomae@ from dark brown to blackish, with orange-yellow markings on neck, humeral angles and connexivum, the corium partially light yellow. 
Triatoma nitida@ dark brown to black, with orange-yellow markings on head, neck, pronotum, acetabula, corium, and connexivum. 
Triatoma protracta@ of abdomen as on rest of body, from light reddish brown to black; intersegmental sutures of dark specimens in most cases narrowly yellow . 
Triatoma recurva@ from piceous to black, in some cases hind lobe of pronotum slightly lighter colored; connexivum orange-yellow along outer margin. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ of abdomen from dark brown to black; spiracles orange. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ of pronotum dark brown to black, with lateral margins from orange-red to yellowish, the light area in many cases extending onto humeral disc and on collar including anterolateral angles. 
Triatoma sordida@ of hemelytra from light to very dark brown. 
Rhodnius brethes@ black, with light brown spots and stripes on dorsal surface of head and neck, on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, connexivum, and ventral surface of abdomen. 
Rhodnius domesticus@ light orange-brown, with dark brown markings on several areas of body and appendages. 
Rhodnius ecuadoriensis@ light brown with dark brown markings on body and appendages, in form of stripes or small irregularly shaped spots, the latter especially conspicuous on legs. 
Rhodnius nasutus@ pale yellowish brown, frequently tinged with reddish, with faint darker brown spots on some regions of body and appendages. 
Rhodnius neglectus@ light brown, with dark brown markings on head, pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum, and yellowish areas on abdomen ventrally, on connexivum and on coxae and trochantera. 
Rhodnius neivai@ uniformly dark brown or blackish; rostrum, antennae, and ventral surface of abdomen reddish brown; second to fifth or sixth connexival segments dorsally and ventrally with small, irregularly shaped spot on posterolateral angles. 
Rhodnius pallescens@ yellowish brown with dark brown spots, in many cases dotted with lighter. 
Rhodnius pictipes@ yellowish brown, with dark brown spots on various body regions and appendages; overall aspect mottled . 
Rhodnius prolixus@ light yellowish brown, with dark brown markings on various regions of body and appendages. 
Rhodnius robustus@ yellowish brown, with very dark brown markings on various regions of body and appendages. 
Psammolestes arthuri@ pale straw yellow with scattered brownish spots, setae short, golden colored, Integument shining, appearing varnished. 
Psammolestes coreodes@ light yellowish brown, speckled and spotted irregularly with dark brown or blackish; setae short, golden colored, Integument dull, slightly rugose. 
Psammolestes tertius@ light yellowish brown with scattered dark brown spots. 
Cavernicola Barber@ brown, with yellowish markings. 
Belminus costaricensis@ black, with yellow or orangebrown spots on membrane of hemelytr a and on abdomen. 
Belminus herreri@ black. 
Belminus peruvianus@ black, in some cases faintly tinged with pink. 
Belminus rugulosus@ black. 
Parabelminus carioca@ black, antennae brown; hemelytra with yellowish spots at base of membrane and adjacent to corium. 
Parabelminus yurupucu@ pattern much as in P. 
Microtriatoma trinidadensis@ piceous to black. 
