Triatoma amicitiae@ uniformly orange-brown, with only extreme apex of corium and entire membrane, dark. 
Triatoma arthurneivai@ black, in some specimens with delicate blue pruinescence; orange-red markings on connexivum. 
Triatoma bouvieri@ from yellowish to reddish brown, with dark brown or black markings on head, pronotum, corium, and connexivum . 
Triatoma brasiliensis@ from dark brown to black, in some cases lighter brown dorsally; brownish yellow markings on neck, pronotum, legs, hemelytra, and connexivum. 
Triatoma breyeri@ dark brown to black, with connexivum partly or entirely pale yellow. 
Triatoma carrioni@ dark brown or black, with orange-red or yellowish markings on thorax, hemelytra and connexivum. 
Triatoma cavernicola@ pale stramineous, with dark brown or black markings mainly on head, pronotum, scutellum, apex of corium, connexivum, and on pleura. 
Triatoma circummaculata@ dark brown or black, with bright red markings on pronotum, corium, and connexivum; extension of markings variable . 
Triatoma costalimai@ dark brown to black, with reddish markings on neck, corium and connexivum. 
Triatoma deanei@ dark brown. 
Triatoma delpontei@ dark reddish brown or black, matte or slightly polished, with yellow markings on neck and connexivum, and with elytra also partly yellowish. 
Triatoma dimidiata@ from piceous to black, with connexivum and corium from pale yellow to orange yellow. 
Triatoma dispar@ dark reddish brown, with black markings on head, fore lobe of pronotum and connexivum, and with red or yellowish red markings on hind lobe of pronotum, scutellum, connexivum, and hemelytra. 
Triatoma eratyrusiforme@ from dark brown to black, with connexivum and portions of adjacent urostemites orange yellow or rarely pale yellow colored. 
Triatoma flavida@ light yellowish brown, with small dark brown spots; under surface dark. 
Triatoma gerstaeckeri@ of hemelytra from dark brown to black, somewhat lighter on and adjacent to apex of clavus. 
Triatoma guasayana@ very dark brown or black, with pale yellow markings on neck, hemelytra, legs and connexivum. 
Triatoma guazu@ black, with yellow markings on neck, corium and connexivum . 
Triatoma hegneri@ from dark brown to black, with orange-yellow spots on neck and connexivum and yellow markings on corium. 
Triatoma indictiva@ from piceous to black, with reddish markings on connexivum; base and subapical region of corium faintly lightened, hind lobe of pronotum equally somewhat lighter, possibly due to fading of preserved specimens; lighter areas in no case distinctly contrasting with dark areas. 
Triatoma infestans@ black (dark brown in many museum specimens), with yellow markings on corium, legs, and connexivum. 
Triatoma lecticularia@ piceous, with orange or orange-yellow markings on pronotum, pleura, corium, connexivum, and ventral surface of abdomen. 
Triatoma lenti@ black, with yellow or orangeyellow markings on neck and connexivum, rarely on corium. 
Triatoma leopoldi@ dark brown or black, with yellowish or orange-red markings on pronotum, corium and connexivum. 
Triatoma limai@ from dark brown to black, with pale yellow markings on corium and connexivum. 
Triatoma longipennis@ dark brown or black, with yellow or orange spots on neck, rarely on humeri, on corium and on connexivum. 
Triatoma maculata@ from dark brown to black, with light yellow, orange-yellow or light red marks on head, neck, thorax , corium and connexivum. 
Triatoma matogrossensis@ dark brown or dark reddish brown, with light yellowish brown areas on neck, hind lobe of pronotum, hemelytra, legs, and connexivum. 
Triatoma mazzottii@ dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on corium and connexivum. 
Triatoma melanocephala@ from dark brown to black, with yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, hemelytra and connexivum. 
Triatoma migrans@ from yellowish to reddish brown, with dark brown or black markings on head, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. 
Triatoma nigromaculata@ yellowish brown or light reddish brown, with numerous black areas and markings dorsally and dark brown areas ventrally. 
Triatoma obscura@ from dark brown to black, with small yellowish brown spots on neck, anterolateral projections, discal and lateral tubercles of fore lobe of pronotum, apex of scutellum and on connexivum. 
Triatoma oliveirai@ black, with orange or yellow markings on neck, in some cases on pronotum, and on connexivum; hemelytra largely yellow. 
Triatoma pallidipennis@ from very dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on neck and connexivum, and with corium almost entirely yellowish white. 
Triatoma patagonica@ blackish brown or black, with yellow or rarely reddish markings on neck, hemelytra, and connexivum. 
Triatoma peninsularis@ ,dark brown or black, only neck and membrane lighter colored. 
Triatoma petrochii@ dark brown, with yellowishmarkings on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. 
Triatoma phyllosoma@ from dark brown to black, with red or orange-red markings on corium and connexivum. 
Triatoma picturata@ dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on neck, hind lobe of pronotum, propleura, occasionally on apex of scutellum, and extensively on corium. 
Triatoma platensis@ dark brown, matte, with yellowish markings on neck and connexivum. 
Triatoma pseudomaculata@ from dark brown to black, with yellow or orange-red marks on neck, thorax, corium, and connexivum. 
Triatoma pugasi@ dorsally light orange-brown or yellowish brown, with head, antennae, membrane, legs, and venter darker. 
Triatoma rubida@ from light reddish brown to dark reddish brown or black, with light markings from deep red to orange-red and yellow, on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum; pronotum and corium in some cases entirely dark. 
Triatoma rubrofasciata@ dark brown to black, with yellowish and orange-red markings on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. 
Triatoma rubrovaria@ black, with red, orange, or rarely yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, corium, and connexivum. 
Triatoma sanguisuga@ from dark brown to black, with orange-red or yellowish markings on neck, pronotum, hemelytra and connexivum. 
Triatoma sinica@ dark brown to black, with yellowish or reddish markings on pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. 
Triatoma sordida@ from light to (rarely) dark brown, with pale yellow areas on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, legs, connexivum, and in some specimens, venter. 
Triatoma spinolai@ dark brown, connexivum and part of adjacent sclerites red. 
Triatoma tibiamaculata@ black, with red and light orange-brown markings on neck pronotum, scutellum, corium, legs, and connexivum. 
Triatoma venosa@ dark brown or black, with head and legs reddish brown and yellowish or orange-red markings on thorax, hemelytra, and connexivum. 
Triatoma vitticeps@ very dark brown tending toward black, with reddish brown or orange-red markings on head, neck, pronotum, pleura, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. 
Triatoma williami@ dark brown to black, with yellow markings on neck, hemelytra, and connexivum. 
Triatoma wygodzinskyi@ black, with reddish markings on neck, humeral region of pronotum, corium, and connexivum. 
ERATYRUS STAL@ dark, with few pattern elements. 
Eratyrus cuspidatus@ dark brown or black, with sides of neck and abdominal venter yellowish; corium with reddish mark subapically. 
Eratyrus mucronatus@ dark brown or black, with sides of neck and underside of abdomen yellowish; corium with reddish mark subapically. 
Linshcosteus Distant@ black. 
Linshcosteus carnifex@ dark brown or black. 
Linshcosteus chota@ reddish brown (probably faded from dark brown or black). 
Linshcosteus confumus@ very dark brown or black. 
Linshcosteus costalis@ very dark brown to black, with wide band along costal margin and membranal veins, light reddish or yellowish brown. 
Linshcosteus kali@ very dark brown or black. 
Dipetalogaster Usinger@ dark. 
Dipetalogaster maximus@ from dark brown to black, with reddish stripe along outer edge of connexivum. 
Panstrongylus chinai@ brownish black to black, many specimens with bluish waxlike pruinosity; small reddish marks on neck, pronotum and connexivum, rarely absent. 
Panstrongylus diasi@ yellowish brown, with darkbrown areas on pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. 
Panstrongylus geniculatus@ light brown or light orangebrown, with dark brown or black pattern elements on various body parts. 
Panstrongylus guentheri@ reddish or orange-brown, with dark brown areas on pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. 
Panstrongylus herreri@ light brownish yellow dorsally, dark brown or black ventrally. 
Panstrongylus howardi@ dark brown or black, with reddish or yellowish areas on pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and abdomen with connexivum. 
Panstrongylus humeralis@ light brown dorsally and darkbrown or black below. 
Panstrongylus lenti@ very light reddish brown, with dark markings on pronotum, hemelytra, pleura and abdomen with connexivum. 
Panstrongylus lignarius@ light brown dorsally; ferrugineous, dark brown or black ventrally. 
Panstrongylus Lutzi@ yellowish brown, with dark brown markings on head, pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. 
Panstrongylus megistus@ black, with red or light reddishbrown markings on neck, pronotum, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. 
Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus@ dark brown or black, with light yellowish brown or red markings on head, neck, thorax, legs, and abdomen; hemelytra tinged with pale green, their markings dark brown. 
Panstrongylus tupynambai@ light reddish brown, with dark brown areas on pronotum, corium and connexivum. 
Paratriatoma hirsuta Barber@ pattern consisting of various shades of brown , from light yellow brown to dark brownish black; in dark specimens corium and legs distinctly lighter. 
Rhodnius paraensis@ light brown, with very dark brown markings on body and appendages; hemelytra almost entirely dark . 
Psammolestes arthuri@ of hemelytra yellowish, cells of membrane only slightly darkened. 
BOLBODERINI USINGER@ light, with more or less extensive dark areas on body and appendages, but never mottled; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; mesonotum longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates more than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; posterior tarsi apically without specialized 
Alberprosenia goyovargasi@ from dark reddish brown to black, with light brown and yellow pattern elements. 
