Triatomini Jeannel, 1919, p. 176; Usinger, 1944, p. 36. Triatominae Pinto, 1926c, p. 485. Small- to large-sized Triatominae (9,5-42,0 long). Body integument from smooth torugose, with or without small setiferous granules. Body from glabrous to heavily hirsute. Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection. Antenna inserted from very close to anterior margin of eye to center of anterior half of anteocular region of head. Genae from falling short of to slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, the latter widened at base, narrow apically. Ocelli situated posterolaterally behind eyes, in most cases on conspicuous elevations, behind interocular sulcus, the latter not fully developed. Head without setiferous callosities behind eyes. Second antennal segment with 4-10 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of segment. Remaining setae of second antennal segment not of uniform size. Corium with veins distinct. Abdomen in most cases with well-developed dorsal and ventral connexival segments, the latter not covered by urosternites; in some cases, dorsal connexival segments fused with urotergites, with ventral connexival segments either well developed or obsolescent, in latter case dorsal and ventral surface of abdomen laterally separated by wide membranous area. Genitalia of male. Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge. Basal plate struts narrow, rodlike, elongate, separate, extending almost along entire length of phallosoma, fused apically or not. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma large, subsemi-elliptical. Vesica heavily sclerotized in many cases. Fifth instar nymph:Body surface delicately or strongly granulose or rugose, glabrous or with short setae, if setae long, then spinulose; head not or very rarely strongly convex dorsally; genae not or only slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus; eyes situated laterally at or behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles without prominent apicolateral process; fourth antennal segment not or only slightly longer than any of the preceding; fourth or third and fourth antennal segments delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present in most genera (except Linshcosteus, genus with abbreviated rostrum); fore and mid femora slender or incrassate, with or without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without or with series of large tubercles dorsally along midline. First instar nymph:Head, thorax and legs uniformly dark or with light-colored annuli, never mottled; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present, rarely absent; mesonotum longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates large, distance between plates varied; femora without trichobothria; hind tarsi apically with or without numerous long, delicate sensory hairs; setae of urotergites arranged in two transversal rows, very rarely three irregular rows. Eggs laid singly.