Cavernicola Barber, 1937a, p. 60. Usinger, 1944, p. 32. Lent and Jurberg, 1969b, p. 318. General color brown, with yellowish markings. Head oval, about twice as long as wide across eyes, strongly convex dorsally; anteocular and postocular regions subequal in length. Interocular furrow shallow, extending backward almost to hind border of head. Eyes small. Ocelli obsolescent. Antennae inserted close to anterior border of eye. First antennal segment short; the remaining progressively longer from second to fourth. Second antennal segment with three closely spaced subbasal trichobothria, as well as one median and one subapical one. Remaining setae of second segment not of uniform size. Rostrum attaining prostemum, with first and third segments very short, second much longer. Pronotum convex, strongly declivous anteriorly, its surface dull, smooth, or faintly rugose, without dorsal or lateral tubercles. Sides of pronotum rounded, not carinate; posterior lobe with l + l narrow submedian carinae attaining hind border, latter with edge narrowly margined. Humeri rounded. Scutellum with disc elevated, convex; posterior process much shorter than disc, blunt, subvertical. Prostemal sulcus without stridulatory groove and without lateral tubercles. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen. Veins normally developed, but difficult to perceive on corium. Hind wings comparatively short and wide, anal lobe very wide; hamus attaining base of wing; distinct apical cell present; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs with femora widened, fusiform without denticles. Spongy fossae of tibiae absent in both sexes. Tarsi elongate. Abdomen convex below. Connexivum wide dorsally, perceptible ventral portion very narrow, only about one-third as wide as dorsal connexival plates. Genitalia of male. Pygophore with median process platelike, bifurcate apically. Phallus with articulatory apparatus without basal plate bridge; pedicel extremely short. Basal plate struts short, somewhat curved, apically continued into short, subrectangular sclerotization. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. V esica not conspicuously sclerotized. Genitalia of female subconical, terminal tergites subhorizontal. First and fifth nymphal instars as described for tribe; prostemum without stridulatory sulcus.