BOLBODERINI USINGER Bolboderini Usinger, 1944, p. 28. Small species of less than 12 long, their body distinctly compressed dorsoventrally. Body integument rugose and with small setigerous granules; body and appendages only with short hairs. Antenniferous tubercles with apicolateral spinelike projection. Genae salient, large, spinelike or platelike, projecting beyond apex of clypeus at least by distance equal to width of clypeus apically. Ocelli situated somewhat before middle of disc of postocular portion of head, not elevated, inconspicuous. Second antennal segment with 1-4 trichobothria arranged in a single row. Remaining setae of second antennal segment of uniform size. Prosternum with well-developed stridulatory sulcus. Legs short, femora thickened. Urosternites covering part of ventral connexival segments, connected to latter by simple membrane. Articulatory apparatus of genitalia of male with basal plate bridge present. Structure of phallus varied. Fift instar nymph. Body surface from slightly rugose to heavily granulose, with short spinulose or scalelike setae. Head not strongly convex dorsally; genae surpassing clypeus by distance equal to width of clypeus apically; eyes situated laterally behind middle of head; antenniferous tubercles with conspicuous apicolateral process; fourth antennal article only very slightly longer than longest of the others; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate; stridulatory sulcus present; fore and mid femora from subcylindrical to slightly incrassate, with or without denticles; femora without trichobothria; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle. First instar nymph:Overall color light, with more or less extensive dark areas on body and appendages, but never mottled; setae simple or spinulose; fourth antennal segment not longer than first, second and third combined; stridulatory sulcus present; mesonotum longer at midline than at sides; metanotal plates small, distance between plates more than twice their width; femora without trichobothria; posterior tarsi apically without specialized hairs.