Belminus herreri, new species Figures 301,302 DIAGNOSIS:Belminus herreri differs from all other species of the genus by the light-colored areas of its thorax and the annulate legs DESCRIPTION. Length of male 8,5 , of female 9,0; maximum width of pronotum of male and female 2,5 , of abdomen of male 3,8 , of female 4,0 General color black. The following areas yellow:collar including anterolateral processes; the 2+2 anterior discal tubercles of fore lobe of pronotum; submedian carinae of hind lobe of pronotum except their posterior portion; lateral and posterolateral margin of hind lobe of pronotum; apical half of scutellar process; a narrow band on corium adjacent to basal two-fifths of clavus; membrane narrowly along contact with corium; coxae and trochantera; narrow apical annulus of femora and a comparatively large submedian annulus on hind femora, incomplete on middle and missing on fore femora; posterior third of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally, extended onto adjacent areas of stemites and tergites; posterior border of pygophore, gonocoxites of eighth segment and median longitudinal stripe on eighth and ninth tergites of female. Head granulose, two and one-half times as long as wide (1:0,4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0,8). Clypeus truncate apically. Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0,5), the latter subcircular, with sides conspicuously convergent posteriorly. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of lower but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2,15. Ocelli small, about as large as individual granule of head integument. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle small, barely extending beyond base of first antenna} segment. Rostrum with basal segment falling slightly short of level of anterior border of eyes; ratio of rostral segments 1:0,90:0,45. Shape of pronotum as shown in figures 301, 302B. Sides of anterior lobe not strongly diverging behind, forming conspicuous angle with sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes of pronotum broadly angular. Disc of anterior lobe granulose and with 7 + 7 tubercles, the 2 + 2 anterior ones the most conspicuous, the remaining difficult to observe. Carinae of posterior lobe almost attaining posterior border of pronotum. Scutellar process subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally, rugose transversally on dorsum, not sulcate. Hemelytra attaining basal third of seventh tergite in male (hemelytra of female not examined). Corium over half as long as hemelytra, attaining level of center of third visible connexival segment, and falling considerably short of apex of inner cell of membrane. The only complete specimen examined with cells of membrane modified by presence of subapical spurious transversal vein in outer cell of membrane. Membrane smoky black, with veins enclosed by deeper black areas. Legs as in generic description and figures 301, 302E. Fore femora four times as long as wide. Femora with one or two spinelike projections, if two then of very different size. Spiracles very close to lateral margin of urosternites . Genitalia as in generic description.