Triatoma deanei Galvao, Souza and Lima Figures 59, 60Triatoma deanei Galviio, Souza and Lima, 1967, p401, ill. Galviio and Fuentes, 1971, p. 141, figs. l, 2, 4. Length of male (holotype) 25 , width of pronotum 6 , of abdomen 8,5 Overall color dark brown. Pilosity short and sparse. Head dark brown, delicately rugose and granulose, slightly less than twice as long as wide (1:0,55), and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0,9). Anteocular region four times as long as postocular (1:0,25), postocular with sides almost straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, abruptly widened on posterior half. In lateral view eyes attaining level of under surface and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,3. Genae narrowly tapering apically, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae angular apically. Antenniferous tubercles located at middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus; remaining segments not preserved. Rostrum reddish brown, relatively stout; first segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of hind margin of eyes. First and under surface of second segment of rostrum with short hairs, upper surface of second and entire third segments with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment, very numerous on apex of second and entire third segments. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2,25:1. Neck dark, with pair of lateral yellowish spots. Pronotum black. Anterior lobe feebly sculptured, not granulose, with distinct although small discal and lateral tubercles, somewhat lighter colored than rest of surface of pronotum. Posterior lobe conspicuously rugose. Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections small, subconical. Scutellum uniformly dark, with well-developed median impression. Posterior process shortly subconical, wide at base, narrowly tapering apically, horizontal. Hemelytra attaining apex of seventh urotergite. Clavus yellowish, dark along outer margin. Corium light yellowish brown with veins mostly dark, central portion of corium also darkened, dark area extending apicad and proximad along cell formed by Sc, R+M and R. Membrane light yellowish brown, withveins narrowly dark. Legs dark brown, trochantera and base of femora contrastingly yellow . Fore and mid femora with pair of very small subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid legs. Venter convex, delicately striate transversally, with sparse short setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Lateral portions of urotergites not exposed. Urosternites dark brown, except for minute yellow spots enclosing spiracles. Connexivum pale yellow, with small dark mark at intersegmental suture along outer border of segment, and darkened along connexival suture dorsally but not ventrally; some of the intersegmental sutures of connexivum slightly and narrowly darkened, markings similar to musical notes.