Belminus peruvianus Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky Figures 61; 9A; lOF; 12F; 13C; 14C; 23F, G; 240, R; 29K; 303-305 Belminus peruvianus Herrer, Lent and Wygodzinsky, 1954, p. 91, figs. 1-37. Length of males 10,2-10,8 , of female 11,2 ; maximum width of pronotum 2,8-2,9 ; maximum width of abdomen of male 4,1-4,7 , of female 4,8-5,0 General color black, in some cases faintly tinged with pink. Antennae, rostrum, and in some cases apices of femora and tarsi, light brown. Light yellowish spots at base of the three veins of membrane; a similar spot at apex of corium. Posterior border of connexival segments dorsally and ventrally with irregularly shaped yellowish red transversal spot occupying from one-third to one-fourth of surface of each connexival segment. Lateral areas of stemites with more or less extensive reddish areas connected to connexival spots. In some specimens, small reddish areas of variable extension before and behind eyes, on sides of hind lobe of head dorsally, on apices of anterolateral projection of pronotum, and on discal tubercles of fore lobe. Head strongly granulate, granules largest on dorsal surface. Head two and one-half times as long as wide (l:0,4) and distinctly longer than pronotum (1:0,8). Oypeus emarginate apically. Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (1:0,4), the latter subrectangular, with sides almost straight, subparallel, only very slightly converging toward behind. Eyes in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal or ventral surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2,5. Ocelli very small, obsolescent, not larger than average granule of head. External spinelike projection of antenniferous tubercle large, attaining one-third of length of first antennal segment. Setae of second antennal segment as shown in figure 61, trichobothrial pattern as shown in figure 9A. Ratio of antennal segments 1:1,85-2,1:1,55-1,65:1,65-1,85. Rostrum with first segment not extending beyond level of posterior third of anteocular region; ratio of rostral segments 1:1,0:0,45. Pronotum black, its shape as shown in figure 304. Sides of anterior lobe strongly divergingtoward behind, not forming conspicuous anglewith sides of posterior lobe. Anterolateral processes pointed. Disc of anterior lobe with 7 + 7 very conspicuous tubercles, the latter subconical in side view. Scutellar process black, subcylindrical, almost pointed posteriorly, rugose transversally on dorsum, not sulcate . Hemelytra and wings as in generic description and figures 304, 305C, F, not quite attaining center of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium half as long as hemelytron, its apex attaining level of extreme base of third visible abdominal tergite, and extending only slightly beyond level of middle of internal cell of membrane, the latter cell slightly widened subapically. Legs with fore femora three and one-half times as long as wide. Femora with one large and two or three smaller denticles or processes, the larger ones up to one-half as long as diameter of femur. Abdomen with spiracles close to external margin of sternites. Genitalia as in generic description and figure 23F, G.