MICROTRIATOMA PROSEN AND MARTINEZ Microtriatoma Prosen and Martinez, 1952, p. 6. Triatominae of 7-8 in length, strongly flattened. Various body regions with distinct adpressed short setae. Basic color black. Head from 1,2-1,7 times as long as wide, not distinctly sulcate on under surface. Genae compressed laterally, their apex widely rounded, considerably surpassing clypeus, and completely covering bucculae. Clypeus widest near apex, narrowed posteriorly. Postocular region from subrectangular, with sides very slightly converging toward behind to subsemicircular. Postocular furrow obsolescent. Eyes medium-sized, in lateral view surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ocelli very small, laterally oriented, situated at level of inner tangents of eyes. Antennae inserted at center of anteocular portion of head. First segment short, second, third, and fourth segments longer, subequal in length. Second segment with three trichobothria, two close to base, one near middle of segment. Rostrum attaining prostemum, distinctly flattened; first segment attaining level of insertion of antennae. Pronotum with anterior lobe granulose, posterior lobe rugose-granulose; anterolateral angles short; discal and lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe with humeri widely rounded; submedian carinae almost attaining hind border. Scutellum subtriangular, heavily rugose-granulose. Posterior process lanceolate, slightly shorter than disc of scutellum. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Cu inserted on base of inner cell of membrane remote from inner angle of cell, conspicuously curved, meeting claval suture at center of latter, enclosing wide subtriangular cell. R + M obsolescent, connected at middle by a small branch to Sc; apical subdivision into R and M faintly perceptible. Hind wing hamus attaining base of wing; secondary vein bifurcate. Legs short, femora not as much thickened as in Parabelminus and without denticles. Tibiae short, compressed laterally, not conspicuously narrowed at base. Spongy fossulae present on all three pairs of legs, small, not longer than width of tibiae apically. Tarsi short, about one fifth of length of tibia, two-segmented. Abdomen heavily rugose dorsally and ventrally. Central portion of venter almost flat but not abruptly so. Connexivum very wide dorsally; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow, from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments. Spiracles remote from connexival suture. MALE GENITALIA:Pygophore with short, narrow, apically blunt posterior process. Articulatory apparatus about as long as wide. Pedicel very short. Struts separated at base, their apical halves fused, forming a narrow tonguelike structure. Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint. Genitalia of female truncate posteriorly, eighth and ninth tergites vertical. Fifth instar nymph:With the characters of the tribe; most setae scalelike; first rostral segment much shorter than second; genae platelike, laterally compressed, apex rounded in lateral view; femora without denticles; tibiae with spongy fossulae on all pairs; tarsi very short, about as long as diameter of tibiae apically.