Triatoma delpontei Romafia and Abalos Figures 61, 62 Triatoma delpontei Romana and Abalos, 1947, p. 80, figs. 1-7, I pl. Abalos and Wygodzinsky, 1951, p. 69, figs. 43, 47, 60, 102, 104-118. Carcavallo and Martinez, 1968, p. 69, pl. I, fig.3. Length of male 24-26 , of female 25-27 ; width of pronotum of male and female 6,5-7,5 ; width of abdomen of male 7,5-9,5 , of female 8,5-10,0 Robust, heavily sclerotized species . Overall color dark reddish brown or black, matte or slightly polished, with yellow markings on neck and connexivum, and with elytra also partly yellowish. Pilosity pale golden colored, adpressed, distinct but not as abundant as in T platensis, the most closely related species. Head dark reddish brown or black, pilose, sparsely granulose. Head comparatively stout in dorsal and lateral view, slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,6), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular, the latter with sides rounded. Oypeus abruptly and almost circularly widened behind middle. Genae pointed, heavily sclerotized distally, extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus. Apex of jugae angular , also heavily sclerotized. Head dorsally with distinct transverse impression at base of clypeus and of jugae. Eyes in lateral view attaining or falling slightly short of level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2,1-2,2. Ocelli inserted on very conspicuous protuberances. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of apex of clypeus. Second and third antennal segments slightly compressed; second with adpressed setae, much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments I:3,3-3,5:2,0-2,3:1,5. Rostrum as dark as head. Setae of rostrum very short on first and most of under surface of second segment; distal portion of under surface and entire upper surface of second as well as entire third segment dorsally, ventrally and laterally with very dense setae much longer than diameter of segment, longest at base of third segment, progressively decreasing in length toward apex of rostrum. First segment attaining level of apex of jugae, viz., not quite reaching level of apex of antenniferous tubercles. Second rostral segment attaining level of hind border of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2:1,0-1,1. Neck dark, with I+ I lateral yellow spots. Pronotum of general body color, from matte to slightly polished, covered with adpressed setae less numerous than in T platensis. Anterior lobe slightly granulose, with I+ I pointed vertical discal and 1 + I smaller, apically rounded lateral tubercles, as well as with I+ I obsolescent posterosublateral tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely and irregularly wrinkled, moderately setose. Submedian carinae evanescent just before hind border of pronotum. Humeral angles rounded; humeral area elevated. Anterolateral angles of pronotum small but distinct, conical, laterally directed. Scutellum heavily rugose; central depression with scattered setae, remainder more densely setose. Base of scutellum with submedian projections obsolescent. Posterior process of scutellum two-fifths as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subconical, wide at base, subcylindrical on apical portion, rounded distally. Hemelytra attammg apex of urotergite VII, in both sexes. Clavus and corium distinctly although sparingly setose. Hemelytra lighter colored than body generally, yellowish, especially on corium, irregularly mottled with dark, dark pigment coalescing into large, irregularly delimited spot centered in apical half of inner membranal cell but extending to outer cell. Legs uniformly dark brown or blackish, stout, fore femur about five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with a pair of obsolescent subapical denticles. Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males, absent in female. Setae of legs very numerous, visible to the unaided eye, many of those on tibiae longer than diameter of article . Venter convex, in female slightly flattened longitudinally along middle. Integument of venter coarsely although shallowly striate transversally; setae adpressed, numerous, but less so than in T platensis. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture, included in small, round yellow spot. Color of venter dark brown or blackish, with small medially constricted transverse yellow spot close but not adjacent to hind border of each segment.