Triatoma indictiva Neiva Figures 84, 85 Triatoma indictiva Neiva, 1912, p. 22. Pinto, 1931, p. 66, figs. 18, 19. Triatoma sanguisuga indictiva:Usinger, 1944, p. 68, pl. 11, fig.E. Triatoma sanguisuga occidentalis Usinger, 1944, p. 69, pl. 11, fig.D. Length of male 18,0-20,5 , of female 18,5-22,0 ; maximum width of pronotum of male 4,5-5,0 , of female 5,0-5,5 ; maximum width of abdomen of male 6,5-7,5 , of female 7-8 Overall color from piceous to black, with reddish markings on connexivum; base and subapical region of corium faintly lightened, hind lobe of pronotum equally somewhat lighter, possibly due to fading of preserved specimens; lighter areas in no case distinctly contrasting with dark areas. Pilosity inconspicuous, most distinct on under surface of abdomen and on legs. Head granulose, about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,5-0,6), and as long as or slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1,0-1,1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0,4). Postocular region distinctly rounded in dorsal view. Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,35-1,70 (1:0,8-1,1 in specimens from west coast of Mexico). Ocelli comparatively small, their diameter smaller than their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles situated on basal third of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling short of apex of clypeus; second segment only with adpressed hairs shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3:2,0:1,7. Rostrum only with short, scattered hairs; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,75-1,85:0,50. Neck with I+ I lateral reddish spots. Pronotum uniformly piceous or black, almost imperceptibly lightened on posterior lobe. Anterior lobe with I+ I low but distinct discal tubercles; lateral tubercles absent. Posterior lobe rugose; submedian carinae extending along entire length of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded, not distinctly elevated. Anterolateral angles of pronotum short and stout, conical or blunt and widely rounded apically. Scutellum heavily rugose, with cordiform central depression, sublateral carinae acute, continuous. Apical scutellar process straight, narrow, apex deflected, rounded, process almost as long as main body of scutellum. Hemelytra attammg apex of abdomen. Corium with short, inconspicuous concolorous setae. Hemelytra uniformly dark brown or piceous when observed directly, but with faint lighter markings on corium basally and subapically, as well as on clavus when seen with magnification. Legs uniformly dark, stout, fore femora about six times as long as wide. Femora of first and second pairs with I+ I subapical pointed denticles. Tibiae of first and second pairs of male with minute spongy fossula, absent in female. Abdomen except connexivum uniformly dark; ventrally with abundant but short pilosity; delicately striate transversally. Spiracles close to but not contiguous with connexival suture . Connexivum from piceous to black; posterior sixth or seventh of each connexival segment narrowly reddish, reddish color extending on to suture; markings identical ventrally and dorsally, not extending on urosternites. Venter from convex to slightly flattened on center longitudinally.