Triatoma leopoldi (Schouteden) Figures 96, 97 Conorhinus leopoldi Schouteden, 1933, p. 64. Triatoma leopoldi:Neiva and Lent, 1936, p. 186. Lent, 1951d, p. 426; 1953b, p. 316. Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Triatoma novaeguineae Miller, 1958, p. 67, figs93-95. Monteith, 1974, p. 91, figs. 1, 2 (newsynonymy). Length of male 19,5-20,5 , of female 21-23 ; width of pronotum of male5,0-5,5, of female 5,5-6,5 ; width of abdomen of male 7,5 , of female 8,5-9,5 Overall color dark brown or black, with yellowish or orange-red markings on pronotum, corium and connexivum. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Pilosity short, inapparent. Head granulose and slightly rugose dorsally, dark reddish brown with 1 + 1 longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally. Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,6) and as long as pronotum (1:1). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (l:0,35); postocular with sides slightly rounded, convergent posteriorly. Clypeus narrow anteriorly, abruptly widened on basal half. Genae pointed apically. In lateral view, eyes attaining or slightly surpassing level of lower surface but not reaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis l:l.9-2,3. Distance of ocelli from hind border of eyes subequal to length of diameter of ocelli. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first segment small, its apex falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3,8-4,5:2,5-3,0:2,5. Rostrum with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment, setae not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments l:l.4-l.6:0,4. Pronotum dark brown or black, with collar and anterolateral processes, lateral margins, elevated areas of anterior lobe, and large central spot and lateral areas of posterior lobe, light reddish brown. Central light spot of posterior lobe elongate subtriangular, beginning narrowly at level of transverse suture, widening posteriorly and attaining posterior margin of pronotum. Lateral markings of posterior lobe elongate, widest on humeri, from there extending shortly mesad to area of median carinae, thus irregular L-shaped. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated areas, with obsolescent discal and without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily rugose, faintly granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior border. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles narrowly conical, conspicuously pointed. Scutellum with sides dark, central area and posterior process red. Central depression and limiting ridges distinct. Posterior process as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, subcylindrical, slightly compressed laterally. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male; in female extending only slightly beyond center of seventh urotergite. Corium yellowish red at base and subapically. Clavus, apex of corium and large spot of variable size at center of corium, dark brown or black. Large central spot of corium connected to apical dark spot or not, partially separated from costal margin by narrow yellow line along margin. Membrane as dark as darkest area of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 3-4 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with small spongy fossulae, absent in females. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in male, more distinctly but not conspicuously so in female. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark reddish brown; pilosity inapparent. Connexivum yellowish or orange-red, dorsally and ventrally with large dark spot at center of eachsegment, spots not attaining outer border orintersegmental sutures.