Triatoma arthurneivai Lent and Martins Figures 37, 38 Triatoma arthurneivai Lent and Martins, 1940, p. 881, fig.1, pis. 26. Correa, Alves and Noda, 1965, p. 217, figs. 1-15. Length of male 22 , of female 19,5-21,0 ; width of pronotum of male and female 5,0 , width of abdomen of male 7,5 , of female 8,0 Overall color black, in some specimens with delicate blue pruinescence; orange-red markings on connexivum. Integument almost glabrous, setae very short and sparse. Head black, delicately granulose, less than twice as long as wide (1:0,6), and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1,1). Anteocular region two and one-half to three times as long as postocular (1:0,3-0,4), postocular with sides rounded, almost angulate. Oypeus long and narrow, only very feebly widened behind middle. Genae narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae rounded or wide-angled apically. Eyes in lateral view considerably surpassing level of under surface and approaching level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,0-1,3. Ocelli large. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment compressed, beset with numerous adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of antennal segments 1:5,0-6,0:3,0-3,2:2,0-2,3. Rostrum reddish brown, lighter than head capsule. Second and third rostral segments somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, very slender in side view. Rostrum appearing glabrous, only third segment with numerous distinctly perceptible but very short hairs. First segment not attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second reaching to level of hind margin of eyes. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,8-1,9:0,9-1,0. Neck dark, with a pair of very small yellow spots laterally. Pronotum entirely black, only very rarely humeral area tinged with orange. Anterior lobe not granulose, with obsolescent or without dorsal and invariably without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae extending to posterior third or almost to hind border of sclerite. Humeral angles narrowly rounded. Anterolateral projections prominent, conical, not flattened dorsoventrally. Scutellum with distinct median depression. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, about as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, with apex slightly upturned, rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Distal portion of process light colored in some specimens. Hemelytra extending to apex of seventh urotergite, in both sexes. Corium black; clavus black on basal third or fourth, light grayish brown on remainder, this color extending to adjoining portion of corium. Membrane fumose, light brown, lighter than corium, veins distinctly darker than cells. Legs uniformly black, very slender. Fore femora 7-8 times as long as wide; femora of fore and mid pairs of legs with a pair of small subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Venter convex, very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female, delicately striate transversally, sparsely beset with short yellowish hairs. Spiracles very close to or adjoining connexival sutures. Urosternites dark brown or black, spiracles surrounded each by small yellow area. Connexivum with orange-red subsemicircular spots in central portion of each segment and adjacent to outer margin, and black marks in shape of wide transverse bands on intersegmental sutures widened toward inner connexival suture; lightcolored areas longer than dark ones, at least along outer margin. Male genitalia with endosomal processes much over half as long as phallosoma , heavily sclerotized, their apices with close to 100 denticles .