Triatoma mazzottii Usinger Figures 168; 108, 109 Meccus phyllosoma:Champion, 1899, p. 209, pl. 12, fig.25 (nee Burmeister). Triatoma mazz.ottii Usinger, 1941, p. 54. Triatoma phyllosoma mazzottii:Usinger, 1944, p. 59, pl. IO, fig.A. Length of male 33 , of female 34 Width of pronotum of male and female 7 , of abdomen of male 13 , of female 14 Body unusually wide. Overall color dark brown to black, with orange-red markings on corium and connexivum. Setae numerous, most delicately hairlike , up to 0,5 in length. Head black, faintly rugose along center above, not granulose, with long hairs. Head twice as long as wide (1:0,450,50), and as long as or very slightly longer than pronotum. Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0,3), postocular with sides almost straight, subparallel. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, almost pointed. Jugae angular apically. Eyes in lateral view invariably attaining level of lower surface and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,5-1,6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind center of anteocular portion of head. First antennal segment extending distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus; second segment with decumbent stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2,4:1,9:? Rostrum dark brown or black. First rostral segment extending to level of middle of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. Rostral segments stout, subcylindrical, with short setae except hairs longer than diameter of segment on third. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,55-1,70:0,25. Neck laterally with I+ l reddish markings. Thorax as in T phyllosoma. Hemelytra and wings of normal size, but leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites of unusually wide abdomen exposed. Hemelytra of males attaining or slightly extending beyond apex of abdomen, those of female attaining middle of urotergite VII. Corium with long (0,3-0,4 ) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black,with one basal triangular and one subapicalsubquadrate spot red or orange-red. Clavus andmembrane black. Legs black, elongate. Fore femur 7,5-8,3 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two subapical denticles, in some cases obsolescent. Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes. Venter convex, delicately and shallowly striate transversally, with numerous decumbent long hairs. Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to from two to three times their diameter. Connexivum black, posterior third or half of each segment with subquadrate orange red marking. On ventral surface, light-colored area of connexival segments posteriorly with short triangular extension on respective urostemites.