Triatoma nigromaculata (Stal) Figures 119-121 Conorhinus variegatus:Still, 1859, p. 113 (nee Drury, 1773). Conorhinus nigromaculatus Still, 1872, p. 111. Triatoma nigromaculata:Neiva, 1914a, p. 55. Mazza and Jorg, 1944c, p. 34, figs. 1-10, pl. 2. Eutriatoma nigromaculata:Lent and Pifano, 1939, p. 627, figs. 1, 2. Length of male 21-22 , of female 23-24 ; width of pronotum of male 5,0-5,5 , of female 5,5-6,0 ; width of abdomen of male 7,0-7,5 , of female 8-9 Overall color yellowish brown or light reddish brown, with numerous black areas and markings dorsally and dark brown areas ventrally. Setae yellow, short and sparse except longer and more numerous on venter. Head dark laterally and ventrally, yellowish brown dorsally on clypeus, dorsal surface of jugae, and entire dorsal surface of head from base of clypeus to hind border of head. Head rugose laterally, approximately twice as long as wide (l:0,450,50) and slightly longer than pronotum (l:0,85-0,95). Anteocular region three to four times as long as postocular (l:0,25-0,30), postocular with sides straight, distinctly converging toward behind. Clypeus elongate, very narrow subapically, gradually widened on posterior half. Genae blunt apically, attaining level of apex of clypeus. Jugae unusually small, narrowly rounded at apex. Eyes in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower but not attaining level of upper surface of head, and in dorsal aspect from slightly narrower to slightly wider than synthlipsis (l:0,9-1,2). Antenniferous tubercles inserted at center of anteocular region. First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment with numerous inclined setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3,3-3,9:2,83,1:2,0-2,3. Rostrum black, very slender. First rostral segment unusually short, not extending beyond middle of distance from apex of antenniferous tubercles to level of apex of clypeus. Second segment attaining level of neck. Rostrum with very short, sparse setae, except about as long as diameter of segment on lower surface of apical portion of second and on entire third segment; setae not dense. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3,3-3,9:1,1-1,3. Neck black, without spots. Pronotum light yellowish brown, with conspicuous black markings. Anterior lobe with 1 + I discal but without lateral tubercles. Posterior lobe heavily wrinkled. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior fourth of hind lobe. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections strongly flattened dorsoventrally, large, prominent, cat-ear like. Anterior lobe of pronotum with elevated areas yellowish brown, smooth low areas (central area four-leaf clover shaped and sublateral areas H-shaped) black. Posterior lobe with 2+2 black markings covered with distinct golden hairs, the 1 + 1 submedian spots subrectangular, with transverse inferointernal incision, the I+ 1 sublateral spots oval. Collar and anterolateral projections light colored, collar with 1 + 1 black spots forming continuation of inner arms of Hshaped black area on fore lobe of pronotum. Scutellum light colored, with sides and central depression black, heavily rugose; posterior process reddish, almost as long as main body of scutellum, subcylindrical, rounded apically in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view. Hemelytra attaining apical margin of urotergite VII, in both sexes. Color of hemelytra light yellowish brown, with dark brown or black pattern elements; small goldencolored setae scattered over corium, most numerous on veins. Corium with small elongate dark markings in lumen of cells; apical half of clavus also dark. Membrane with dark markings in cells and spaces between veins which are light colored; membranal cells with dark areas occupying almost entire lumen of cells, dark spot of inner membranal cell interrupted near base. Overall color of legs black; apex of femora and base of tibiae conspicuously annulate with yellow . Fore and mid femora with three or four stout spinelike denticles, two or three of which arranged continuously on one side, and one median less strongly developed one closer to apex. Hind femora with one smaller denticle. Spongy fossulae not developed in either sex. Abdomen convex. below, delicately striate transversally. Urosternites II-IV of male carinate longitudinally along middle; venter slightly flattened in female. Venter dark brown, with lateral portions of urosternites light colored, light areas forming undulate band. Setae of venter golden colored, longer and more dense than on rest of body. Connexivum light yellowish brown, disc of each segment dorsally with dark anvil-shaped spot at center, reduced in size on first and last visible segments. In some specimens median constriction of black markings complete so as to form two separate dark spots. Connexival segments with ventral spots simple, subrectangular.