Triatoma obscura (Maldonado and Farr), new combination Figures 125, 126 Nesotriatoma obscura Maldonado and Farr, 1962, p. 190, figs, 10-18. Length of female examined, 25 , width of pronotum 5,5 , of abdomen 8,5 Overall color from dark brown to black, with small yellowish brown spots on neck, anterolateral projections, discal and lateral tubercles of fore lobe of pronotum, apex of scutellum and on connexivum. Setae short but distinct, more slender than those of fiavida. Head conspicuously granulose dorsally, of general body color, twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,5) and as long as pronotum (1:1). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0,4); postocular with sides subparallel, slightly converging toward behind. Clypeus only faintly widened behind middle. Genae slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus, their apex narrowly tapered, almost pointed. Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,6. Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First antennal segment blackish, second dark reddish brown. First segment attaining level of apex of clypeus, second segment with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter. Ratio of first and second antennal segments 1:2,7. Rostrum slender, with inconspicuous short setae, but scattered long setae on apical segment. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle; second segment reaching to neck; third segment shorter than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2,3:0,6. Neck dark brown, with I+ 1 yellowish lateral spots. Pronotum of general color. Anterior lobe granulose, with 1 + l lateral small yellowish tubercles. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, wrinkled, not granulose. Submedian carinae poorly developed, evanescent on posterior half of posterior lobe. Humeral angles yellowish, angular, narrowly explanate, the explanate portion reflected in specimen examined. Lateral carinae of pronotum partly yellow. Anterolateral angles yellowish, subtriangular, compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum dark, apex of posterior process yellow. Main body of scutellum heavily and irregularly rugose, central depression barely developed. Scutellum anteriorly with l + 1 conspicuous submedian forwardly inclined pointed projections. Posterior process of scutellum subcylindrical, horizontal, swollen apically, rounded at tip. Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite, their overall color blackish, with almost imperceptible light-colored areas. Legs with femora dark brown, tibiae slightly lighter reddish brown. Legs slender, fore femora about eight times as long as wide. Femora without denticles, only somewhat prominent at usual area of insertion of denticles. Spongy fossulae absent. Venter flattened longitudinally along middle; delicately striate transversally. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by their own diameter. Pilosity of venter short but distinct. Venter dark reddish brown, spiracles enclosed in small yellowish area. Connexivum dark brown, segments with posterior fourth occupied by narrow transverse yellowish band, wider at external than at internal border of segment. Female genitalia strongly projecting backwards.