Triatoma pugasi Lent Figures 151-153 Triatoma pugasi Lent, 1953b, p. 316, figs. 2-4. Monteith, 1974, p. 91. Length of male 24,0-24,5 , of female 24,0 , width of pronotum of male 6,5 , of female 6,0 ; width of abdomen of male 10,0 , of female 9,5 Overall color dorsally light orange-brown or yellowish brown, with head, antennae, membrane, legs, and venter darker. Integument rugose, granulose in some areas. Setae very short and sparse. Head dorsally faintly rugose and distinctly granulose; dark reddish brown with 1 + 1 submedian black lines on dorsum. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (1:0,55) and slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1,1). Anteocular region about two and onehalf times as long as postocular (1:0,40-0,45); postocular with sides slightly convex, somewhat converging toward behind. Clypeus widened posteriorly, not strongly elevated. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed, distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Eyes in lateral view distinctly surpassing level of under surface but not attaining level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,5 (o), 1:2,1 (<.?). Ocelli small, their diameter equal to or smaller than their distance from eyes. Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region. First and second antennal segments dark brown; first very small, falling short of level of apex of clypeus. Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae much shorter than diameter of segment. Ratio of antenna} segments 1:4,4-4,8:2,7:2,0. Rostrum with short inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments. First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles, second attaining level of middle of neck. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,30:0,35. Pronotum uniformly orangebrown. Anterior lobe granulose on elevated portions, with 1+ I obsolescent discal but without lateral tubercles. Hind lobe coarsely rugose, slightly granulose. Submedian carinae very short, evanescent at middle of posterior lobe. Humeral angles rounded, slightly explanate and elevated. Anterolateral angles with short subtriangular forward directed projections. Scutellum orange-brown, its central depressed portion rugose, limited by distinct carinae. Posterior process of scutellum less than half as long as main body of scutellum, horizontal, narrowly subconical. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen in male, reaching to posterior margin of seventh urotergite in female. Corium light yellowish brown, extensively brown fumose on basal half and at extreme apex. Membrane darker than dark portions of corium. Legs dark reddish brown, stout; fore femur five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 2+2 subapical denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with small spongy fossulae, the latter present in females only on fore tibiae. Venter slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in male and more strongly so in female, with flattened portion not distinctly separated from lateral convex area. Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of meandering and labyrinthine wrinkles; transverse striation not developed. Connexival segments with conspicuous oblique rugosities. Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture. Venter dark reddish brown. Connexivum light brown, not spotted.