Triatoma ryckmani Zeled6n and Ponce Figures 166-167 Triatoma ryckmani Zeled6n and Ponce, 1972, p. 276, fig.I. Female. Length 20,0-20,5 ; width of pronotum 4,5 , of abdomen 7 .0-7 .5 Dark brown on dorsum of head, on thorax and on hemelytra; yellowish brown on entire under surface as well as on corium, the latter spotted with dark. Setae of body surface short, black, adpressed, but longer and semierect on under surface of thorax and on abdominal urosternites. Head heavily rugosegranulose dorsally and laterally, smooth below along middle, about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0,55), and slightly shorter than pronotum (l:1,1). Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular (l:0,4); postocular with sides rounded. Clypeus narrow, with short abrupt swelling on basal third. Genae with inner margin light colored, their apex pointed, extending beyond level of apex of clypeus. In lateral view, eyes close to level of upper surface of head, and attaining level of lower surface. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1,3-1,5. Antenniferous tubercle situated at level of center of anteocular region, with distinct apicoextemal setiferous projection. Antennal segments I and II dark brown. First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus. Second segment with short, decumbent setae only. Ratio of antennal segments 1:3,0-3,5:2,2-2,6:2,1-2,6. Rostrum slender, with very short hairs only. First rostral segment almost attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second attaining level of hind margin of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:2,6-2,7:1,0. Head dark brown, smooth, central portion of under surface and anterior portion of neck, light yellow brown. Pronotum dark brown, light to varied degree on sublateral carinae, borders of posterior and ridges of anterior lobes. Sides of pronotum strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus. Anterior lobe elevated, granulose but not forming distinct tubercles with ridges prominent. Posterior lobe heavily granulose, its lateral margin carinate; humeri rounded, sublateral carinae approaching posterior margin. Anterolateral angles short but distinct, broadly subconical. Scutellum with central depressed portion heavily rugose, limited by broad carinae; at its base 1 + 1 conspicuous submedian tubercles, overlapping posterior border of pronotum. Posterior process over half as long as main body of scutellum, cylindrical, its apex rounded or subtruncate, slightly elevated. Color of scutellum uniformly dark brown. Thoracic stema, acetabula, and part of pleura yellowish brown, remainder of pleura contrastingly dark brown. Thoracic stema with long, semierect hairs. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, appearing narrow compared to wide abdomen, leaving entire connexivum and narrow lateral portion of urotergites exposed. Clavus, most of corium and entire membrane dark brown; base of corium, its entire external margin narrowly as well as preapical spot, brownish yellow. Legs stout, fore femora 4,0-4,5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with two pairs of denticles followed by one or two rows of small setiferous tubercles. Tibiae without spongy fossulae. Coxae, trochantera, and basal two-thirds or three-fourths of femora yellowish, apex of femora with tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Venter conspicuously flattened below along middle; flattened portion limited laterally by 1 + 1 distinct carinae converging medially at base of third and at middle of seventh segment. Venter with irregular transverse wrinkles and numerous long, semierect hairs. Spiracles close to connexival suture . Connexival segments very wide dorsally and wider than usual for the genus ventrally . Setae of under surface of connexivum restricted to outer half of each segment . Urosternites yellowish brown; genital area dark brown. Connexival segments yellowish, with central transversal dark spot of varied size and intensity .