Triatoma carrioni Larrousse Figures 49, 50 Triatoma carrioni Larrousse, 1926, p. 136, figs. 1, 3, 4. Campos, 1928, p. 61. Le6n, 1953, p. 2, fig. C. Herrer, 1955, p. 70, fig.2. Eutriatoma carrioni:Pinto, 1931, p. 87. Length of male 19,5-21,0 , of female 20,0-22,5 ; width of pronotum of male 4,5-5,0 , of female 4,5-5,5 ; width of abdomen of male 6,0-7,5 , of female 6,5-8,0 Overall color dark brown or black, with orange-red or yellowish markings on thorax, hemelytra and connexivum. Setae slender, very short, golden colored, inconspicuous. Head black, dorsally along middle with elevated longitudinal granulose ridge. Head about twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0,4-0,5) and distinctly longer than pronotum (l:0,8-0,9). Anteocular region about three times as long as postocular (1:0,35), postocular with sides slightly rounded, converging towards behind. Clypeus narrow, elongate, slightly widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, in some cases pointed, not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus. In side view, eyes reaching level of lower but not of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:0,8-0,9 in male, 1:1,0-1,6 in female, viz., eyes wider than synthlipsis in male but as wide as, or narrower than, synthlipsis in female . Antenniferous tubercles inserted distinctly behind middle of anteocular area. First and second antennal segments dark brown or black; first very short, not extending beyond basal two-thirds of genae. Second antennal segment with stout decumbent setae slightly longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2,8-3,3:2,8-3,2:2,3-2,8. Rostrum dark brown or black, with short inconspicuous setae. First rostral segment only reaching to level of center of genae; second segment very long and slender, attaining level of ocelli, viz., not reaching to level of posterior border of head. Third rostral segment longer than first. Ratio of rostral segments 1:3,0-3,5:1,2-1,3. Pronotum dark brown or black. Anterior lobe margined laterally with red, with discal and 1 + 1 posterosublateral tubercles; lateral tubercles absent but lateral borders of anterior lobe angularly salient behind. Posterior lobe black, with lateral margin bordered with orange-red; additionally, one central and 1 + 1 subl ateral longitudinal markings ex - tending from transversal sulcus to pronotum, markings medially constricted or even interrupted. Posterior lobe strongly rugose, wrinkled, not granulose. Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles and in some cases also center of collar, red. Anterolateral projections subconical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrall y. Scutellum black, heavily rugose, its posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum, black at base, red distally, its apex spoon-shaped . Pleura uniformly dark brown or black. Hemelytra reaching apex of abdomen, black. Corium with one subbasal and one subapical very irregularly shaped transverse yellowish marking; apex of corium also yellowish. Some portions of veins forming membranal cells light colored and bordered with light, extension of light areas variable. Inner membranal cell with light-colored spot subbasally. Legs black, stout; fore femur 5,5-6,0 times as long as wide. Femora of first and second pairs of legs with three, hind femora with two, unusually large denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Abdomen minutely striate transversally below. Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture. Pilosity of venter inconspicuous, adpressed. Venter of male convex, with faint trace of median longitudinal keel. Venter of female faintly but perceptibly flattened longitudinally along middle from second to sixth urosternite; seventh urosternite keeled longitudinally along middle. Venter dark brown or black. Connexivum black, with narrow transversal reddish spots straddling intersegmental sutures.