Panstrongylus herreri Wygodzinsky Figures 225, 226 Panstrongylus herreri Wygodzinsky, 1948, p. 198, figs. l-3. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 401, figs. l (part), 2 (part), 78-110. Length of male 20,5-22,0 , of female 23,0-27,5 ; width of pronotum of male 5,3-6,2 , of female 6,5-7,0 , width of abdomen of male 6,8-7 .0 , of female 8,2-10,0 Overall color light brownish yellow dorsally, dark brown or black ventrally. Markings of dorsal surface complex , from dark brown to black, present on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Legs black with yellow markings. Body surface with very short, inconspicuous golden setae. Head light brownish yellow, including genae and antenniferous tubercles; bucculae and entire under surface of head black. Dorsally, a narrow black stripe longitudinally along middle, extending from level of middle of clypeus to that of hind border of eyes, conspicuously widened shortly before middle. Surface of head faintly rugose above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0,6-0,7), slightly shorter than pronotum (1:1,10-1,15). Anteocular region three times as long as postocular (1:0,30-0,35); postocular with sides faintly rounded, strongly converging toward behind. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with curved, apically tapering projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes above, dorsal surface almost straight in lateral view. Eyes in side view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head, in lateral view. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:1,6-1,8 (in males), 1:2,0 (in females), viz., eyes of males larger than those of females. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second segment black. First antennal segment approaching but not attaining level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2,32,5:2,1-2,5:2,1. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles, second extending to level of neck. First and most of second segment with very short, inconspicuous setae, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,3-1,4:0,45-0,55. Neck with 1+ 1 dark spots dorsally. Pronotum with posterior lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brownish yellow, with narrow longitudinal markings on posterior lobe as shown in figure 226B. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas slightly uneven, with 1 + 1 comparatively small discal tubercles, followed or not by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal tubercles; l+ 1 additional, sublateral tubercles invariably present, situated between posterior submedian and lateral tubercles. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe of pronotum coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Submedian carinae attaining posterior third of posterior lobe. Humeral angles salient, narrowly rounded, slightly explanate. Collar of general body color, with 1+ l dark areas at center, and slightly darkened at base of anterolateral projections, the latter tongueshaped, compressed dorsoventrally. Scutellum black, with light brown or yellowish median longitudinal stripe including entire posterior process, and light again at sides. Median depression of scutellum narrow, shallow, faintly rugose, remainder of disc of scutellum flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum very short, about one-third as long as main body of scutellum, only slightly elevated at base, its apex knobbed. Pleura extensively black, with yellowish spots. Stema black. Hemelytra closely approaching tip of abdomen, light yellowish brown or yellow, with complex dark brown and black pattern elements as illustrated in figure 225. Base of membranal cells dark velvet brown or sooty black. Legs with fore femora 5,0-5,5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of both sexes with well-developed spongy fossulae, those of male very slightly longer than those of female. Coxae and basal half of trochantera black; apex of trochantera, and base and apex of femora yellow. Remaining portion of femora and tibiae entirely black. Venter convex, flattened longitudinally along middle, more strongly so in female than in male. Urosternites delicately striate transversally, with short, inconspicuous setae. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between FIG. 226. Panstrongylus herreri. A. Head, dorsal view. B. Pronotum. C. Scutellum. D. Head and anterior portion of thorax, side view. urostemites II and III well developed. Urosternites black; spiracles included in small yellow spots. Connexivum yellow or light yellowish brown. Each connexival segment dorsally at anterolateral comer, adjacent to intersegmental suture, with wedge-shaped mark from one-third to one-half as long but less than half as wide as segment. Ventral connexival segments as above or with transverse black marking adjacent to anterior intersegmental suture, extending over entire width of connexival plate. MALE GENITALIA:Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes denticulate on entire apical portion.