Panstrongylus lignarius (Walker) Figures 29M; 32A; 234-236 Conorhinus lignarius Walker, 1873b, p. 17. Eratyrus lignarius:Lethierry and Severin, 1896, p. 117. Conorrhinus lignarius:Champion, 1899, p. 206. Lamus lignarius:Distant, 1902, p. 191. Triatoma lignarius:Neiva, 19lld, p. 461. Panstrongylus lignarius:Pinto, 1931, p. 116. Lent, 1943b, p. 486, figs. 1-6. Deane and Damasceno, 1950, p. 809, figs. 1, 2. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, p. 411, figs. l (part), 2 (part), 149-169. Mestor lignarius:Usinger, 1939, p. 39. Length of male 25-26 , of female 30-31 ; width of pronotum of male 7,0-7,5 , of female 8,0-8,5 ; width of abdomen of male 8-9 , of female 11-12 Overall color light brown dorsally; ferrugineous, dark brown or black ventrally. Markings of dorsal surface complex, from dark brown to black, present on head, neck, pronotum, scutellum, hemelytra, and connexivum. Legs ferrugineous or black, with yellow markings. Body surface with very short inconspicuous golden setae. Head light brown, including part or all of genae and antenniferous tubercles; bucculae and entire under surface of head black; dorsally, a faded dark stripe of irregular shape longitudinally along middle, extending from level of jugae to that of ocelli. Surface of head faintly rugose above. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (l:0,70-0,75) and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.3-1,4). Anteocular region from three to four times as long as postocular, the latter with sides faintly rounded, strongly converging posteriorly. Clypeus narrow, widened on posterior half. Genae narrowly tapering apically, attaining but not surpassing level of apex of clypeus. Jugae with curved pointed projection. Head not strongly elevated between eyes above, dorsal surface almost straight in lateral view. Eyes large in both sexes, in lateral view surpassing level of under and distant from level of upper surface of head. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:1,2-1,6. Antenniferous tubercles without apicolateral process. Antennae with first and second segments black. First antennal segment approaching level of apex of clypeus; second with inclined stiff setae not longer than diameter of segment, and with numerous short sensory hairs mainly on under surface of article. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2,42,7:2,4-2,7:1,7-2,0. Rostrum black. First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second extending to level of neck. First and most of second segment with very short, inconspicuous setae, third with setae as long as or longer than diameter of segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,3-1,4:0,3-0,5. Pronotum with posterior lobe unusually wide. Overall color of pronotum light brown, with narrow longitudinal markings. Anterior lobe slightly convex, elevated areas faintly granulose, with 1 + 1 comparatively small discal tubercles, followed or not by 1 + 1 similar but smaller tubercles at base of submedian carinae; lateral tubercles present, well developed although smaller than discal tubercles; 1+ 1 additional, sublateral tubercles invariably present, situated between posterior submedian and lateral tubercles. All tubercles mentioned yellow, polished. Posterior lobe coarsely rugose, conspicuously flaring posterolaterally. Submedian carinae short, not attaining posterior third of hind lobe. Humeral angles salient, from rounded to subangular. Humeri elevated, humeral angles narrowly explanate. Collar of general body color, faintly darkened submedially and again, more intensely so, at base of anterolateral projections, the latter large, narrowly conical, somewhat compressed dorsoventrally, narrowly tapering at apex. Scutellum black, with light brown or yellowish median longitudinal stripe including entire posterior process, and again at sides of sclerite. Median depression of scutellum narrow, shallow, faintly rugose; remainder of disc of scutellum flat, smooth. Posterior process of scutellum very short, one-half to one-third as long as main body of scutellum, only slightly elevated at base, its apex knobbed. Neck with 1 + 1 dark spots dorsally. Pleura light reddish brown, with sutures between sclerites and parts of the latter dark. Stema dark. Hemelytra closely approaching apex of abdomen, light brown, with complex dark brown or black pattern elements as illustrated in figures 234, 235. Base of membranal cells conspicuously sooty black. Legs with fore femora 4,3-5,5 times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with 1 + 1 subapical denticles. Fore and mid tibiae of both sexes with well developed spongy fossulae, those of male slightly larger than those of females. Coxae and basal half of trochanter black; apex of trochantera, base and apex of femora, and subbasal annulus of tibiae, yellowish. Remaining portion of femora from rust-colored to black; tibia black. Venter convex, flattened longitudinally along middle, more distinctly so in female than in male. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short, inconspicuous. Spiracles adjoining connexival suture. Suture between urostemites II and III well developed. Urosternites from dark rust-colored to black; spiracles included in small yellow spot. Connexivum yellow or light yellowish brown. Each connexival segment dorsally at anterolateral comer adjacent to intersegmental suture with wedge-shaped black mark from one-third to one-half as long but less than half as wide as segment. Ventrally, connexival segments with transverse black marking adjacent to anterior intersegmental suture extending over entire width of segment and about one-third as long as latter. MALE GENITALIA:Vesica with short lateral projections. Lateral endosoma processes with denticles on entire apical portion.