Panstrongylus Lutzi (Neiva and Pinto) Figures 61; 237-239 Triatoma Lutzi Neiva and Pinto, l923c, p. 74. Pinto, l925a, p. 55, figs. 37, 38. PanstrongyLus Lutzi:Pinto, 1931, p. ll6, fig.51. Lent and Jurberg, 1975, figs. 170-194. Length of male 24,0-28,5 , of female 28-29 ; width of pronotum of male 6,5-8,0, of female 7,5-8,0 ; width of abdomen of male 8-11 , of female 10,5-11,5 Overall color yellowish brown, with dark brown markings on head, pronotum, pleura, scutellum, corium, and connexivum. Body surface appearing glabrous. Head uniformly dark yellowish brown, antenniferous tubercles dark brown, shallowly rugose dorsally along middle, otherwise smooth. Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes (1:0,7), and much shorter than pronotum (l:l.3-l.5). Anteocular region twice as long as postocular (1:0,50-0,55); postocular very short and wide, its sides rounded and covered from above by large, laterally protruding ocelli. Clypeus widened posteriorly. Genae very narrowly tapering apically, falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus. Jugae blunt apically. Head strongly elevated above, in lateral view. Eyes in side view remote from level of upper but projecting below level of lower surface of head. Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1:2,0-2,8. Antenniferous tubercles very short, with small but distinct apicolateral process. Antennae dark reddish brown. First antennal segment extending beyond level of apex of clypeus by one-third of its own length; second segment with inclined stiff setae and numerous short sensory hairs. Ratio of antennal segments 1:2,9-3,3:2,2-2,4:1,95-2,0. Rostrum as shown in figure 2398; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle, second segment extending to level of base of neck. First and most of second antenna} segment with very short inconspicuous hairs, appearing almost glabrous; apex of second and entire third rostral segment with hairs twice as long as or longer than diameter of respective segment. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,2-1,3:0,50-0,55. Overall color of pronotum yellowish brown, the following areas from dark to black:center of collar, surface of fore lobe except discal tubercles and lateral carinae, three longitudinal markings on posterior lobe, viz., one median mark, widest anteriorly and abruptly narrowed on posterior half, attaining posterior margin or pronotum or not, and 1 + 1 sublateral markings between submedian and lateral carinae, the latter two marks variable in size, from covering only one-third of length of posterior lobe to as long as hind lobe. Posterior margin of pronotum narrowly darkened. Anterior lobe of pronotum convex; ridges low, inconspicuous; discal tubercles large, rounded; lateral tubercles much smaller than discal ones, mere elevations of lateral carinae. Lateral margins of anterior and posterior lobe of pronotum forming conspicuous angle, pronotum strongly constricted at level of transverse furrow. Posterior lobe of pronotum rugose transversally. Submedian carinae low, evanescent on posterior third. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral projections of pronotum about as large as discal tubercles, from conical to rounded. Scutellum dark brown, with posterior process in some specimens lighter brown. Scutellum conspicuously rugose, central excavation shallow, elongate, in some specimens extending to base of scutellar process. Posterior scutellar process as long as main body of sclerite, subhorizontal, slender cylindrical, narrowly tapering apically. Hemelytra attaining apex of abdomen, in both sexes. Corium yellowish brown, at center with large, irregularly shaped dark brown spot; apex of corium equally dark brown. Membrane almost as dark as dark portion of corium, fumose. Legs with fore femur approximately five times as long as wide. Fore and mid femora with numerous denticles , arranged in two rows on apical twothirds, irregularly arranged near base of article, progressively increasing in size from base to apex of femora. Fore and mid tibiae with very small spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Legs uniformly reddish brown, faintly darker on apex. Venter convex in both sexes. Urosternites delicately striate transversally. Setae of venter short and sparse. Spiracles distant from connexival suture by about three times their diameter. Suture between urostemites II and III shallow. Venter yellowish or reddish brown. Connexivum yellowish brown, anterior third of half of each connexival segment with dark brown or black irregularly subrectangular spot adjacent to intersegmental suture. MALE GENITALIA:Vesica small. Lateral endosoma processes short, free portion denticulate.