Triatoma cavernicola Else and Cheong Figures 51, 52 Triatoma cavernicola Else and Cheong in Else, Cheong, Mahadevan and Zarate, 1977, p. 367, 2 figs. Length of males 18,5-20,5 , of females 20,5-21,0 ; width of pronotum of males 6,5-7,5 , of females 4,5 ; width of abdomen of males 6,5-7,5 , of females 7,0-7,5 General shape comparatively slender. Overall color pale stramineous, with dark brown or black markings mainly on head, pronotum, scutellum, apex of corium, connexivum, and on pleura. Body integument rugose. Setae very short and sparse. Head stramineous, with sides partly black, its surface slightly rugose and heavily granulose, approximately twice as long as wide across eyes (l:0,55), and as long as pronotum. Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular (l:0,33); postocular region with sides rounded, heavily granulose. Clypeus widened at base, but not abruptly so. Genae narrowly tapering apically but not pointed. Under surface of head with distinct protuberance behind eyes. In lateral view eyes attaining level of under surface of head and remote from level of upper surface. Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1:2,1-2,4. Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head, without apicolateral projection. First antennal segment light colored, falling short of level of apex of clypeus; second segment entirely dark. Ratio of antennal segments 1:4,5:3,1:2,5. Rostrum with sparse short hairs except those on third segment which are more numerous and as long as diameter of segment. First rostral segment attaining level of insertion of antenniferous tubercles, second segment attaining level of hind border of head. Ratio of rostral segments 1:1,5:0,5. Neck of general body color, with 1 + 1 dark lateral spots, being part of discontinuous lateral dark area extending from sides of head to first visible urostemite. Pronotum with anterior lobe slightly granulose, almost flat, without discal or lateral tu bercles; its color uniformly light. Posterior lobe delicately rugose and granulose, with submedian carinae delimitating a central and l + l lateral depressed areas, the latter on their anterior half with l + l elongate dark markings; l + l similar but shorter markings, not distinct in all specimens, close to inner border of carinae, at sides of central depression. Humeral angles rounded. Anterolateral angles of pronotum subtriangular, anterolaterally directed. Scutellum granulose and coarsely rugose transversally, dark laterally and light colored at center. Posterior process of scutellum subconical, shorter than main body of scutellum, horizontal , rounded apically; its color light yellow. Sterna and pleura , except acetabula, dark ; mesosternum lighter. Legs uniformly yellow, relatively slender; fore femur 6-7 times as long as wide, with one or two weakly developed or without denticles. Tibiae of first and second pair of legs of male with spongy fossulae, absent in female. Hemelytra attaining or slightly surpassing middle of seventh urotergite. Corium almost entirely pale yellow, with one elongate black spot subapically and, in some specimens, with a small and faint spot at center. Membrane light smoky brown. Venter flattened longitudinally along center, more pronouncedly so in female. Abdomen light colored ventrally, with external genitalia darkened somewhat irregularly in both sexes (artifact?). Integument of venter with extremely small irregular wrinkles, giving it an overall minutely crinkled aspect. Connexivum delicately creased longitudinally along outer margin. Color of connexivum pale yellow, disk of each segment with dark central spot adjacent to inner connexival suture but not attaining outer border; these spots very distinct dorsally from first to fifth visible segment, absent on last segment; corresponding spots of ventral surface of connexivum narrower.