Rhodnius Stal, 1859. Other genus included:PsammolestesBergroth, 1911. DISTRIBUTION:Southern Mexico, Central America, South America to Argentina. BIOLOGY:In birds nests and on palm trees; a few species associated with mammals, or peridomestic and domestic. OBSERVATIONS:This tribe contains two closely related genera. The postocular callosities, the short ancillary series of trichobothria on the second antennal segment, and the characteristically modified basal plate struts are synapomorphic characters not shared by any other triatomine genus, and sufficient to characterize the tribe. Carcavallo-(1976) included the name Psammolestiini in a list of triatomine tribes of the Americas. There is no statement giving differential characters for the taxon, there is no reference to such a statement, and Psammolestiini is not proposed as a replacement name; therefore, Psammolestiini is to be considered as a nomennudum. In any case, the close relationship between Rhodnius and Psammolestes does not justify the segregation of Psammolestes on the tribal level. RHODNIUS ST AL Rhodnius Stal, 1859, p. 104. Lent, 1948a, p. 298. Lent and Jurberg, 1969c, p. 487. Triatominae from 11 to 26 long; their general color light brown or straw-colored, with brown or blackish, occasionally reddish brown markings, scattered or in large spots and stripes; rarely black with reddish markings. Setae very short, inconspicuous. Head slender and elongate, subcylindrical, from two to three times as long as wide across eyes, in most cases longer than pronotum. Head granulose at sides before and behind eyes, its dorsal surface with a narrow median longitudinal ridge. Anteocular region in most species at least three times as long as postocular; postocular not more than twice as long as wide. Postocular callosities present but not prominent. Clypeus narrow, parallel-sided but widened at apex. Genae situated below level of clypeus, slightly surpassing the latter apically. Jugae inconspicuous, not salient. Postocular furrow shallow, interrupted, distinct only on lateral portions. Eyes from medium-sized to large. Ocelli well developed, inserted on small lateral protuberances, their distance slightly larger than dorsal interocular distance. Antenniferous tubercles short, insertion of antennae situated near apex of head. Antennae with first segment unusually short, attaining level of apex of clypeus; second article at least four and onehalf times as long as first, third slightly shorter than second (except in brethesi where third is longer than second), fourth shorter than the two preceding. Second article with five or six trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article, their distance progressively larger toward apex of article, and with two ancillary trichobothria laterad of basal trichobothrium of main row. Rostrum attammg prostemum, slender, subcylindrical, slightly flattened dorsoventrally. First and third rostral segments very short, second about four times as long as first or third, only rarely (R. paraensis) slightly less than three times as long as first. Pronotum with sides carinate. Fore lobe simple; hind lobe granulose and rugose. Anterolateral angles shortly projecting, rounded or angular apically. Humeral angles rounded. I+ 1 submedian carinae extending from anterior border of fore lobe to posterior margin of posterior lobe. Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally, with depressed area at center; apical process short, subcylindrical, rounded apically. Prostemal groove narrow, with well-developed stridulatory sulcus. Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen. Veins normally developed, included in most species in light-colored bands. Corium with short inconspicuous setae. Hind wing as in Triatoma, viz., with hamus extending to wing base, without apical cell, and secondary vein simple. Legs long and slender, with scattered short setae. Femora from parallel-sided to fusiform, without spines or tubercles. Tibiae of first and second pairs of legs with short spongy fossulae, in both sexes. Abdomen convex below, in some cases center of urostemites slightly flattened. Connexivum wide dorsally, ventral portion partially or entirely covered by stemite, in former case much narrower than dorsal portion. Spiracles distant from lateral border of urostemite. MALE GENITALIA:Pygophore with median process pointed, blunt, bifurcate or subrectangular. Articulatory apparatus with basal bridge well developed. Basal plate struts transformed into two short, basally connected convolute structures. Genitalia of female truncate, eighth and ninth tergites subvertical. Fifth instar nymph:With the characters of the tribe; head elongate, subcylindrical; antennae inserted at anterior third or fourth of anteocular region; lateral postocular callosities difficult to perceive; stridulatory sulcus more than twice as long as wide; femora from subcylindrical to fusiform. First instar nymph:As described for tribe; head elongate, anteocular region longer than wide. Eggs adhering to substrate, light colored, with subpolar constriction; operculum convex; chorion and operculum reticulate.