Triatoma circummaculata ( Stal ) Figures 53-55 Conorhinus circummaculatus Stal , 1859 , p . 114 . Triatoma circummaculata : Neiva , 1913 , p . 196 ; 1914a , p . 35 . Del Ponte , 1930 , p . 868 , pl . 44 , fig . 1 . Triatoma ( Neotriatoma ) circummaculata : Lima , 1940 , p . 198 . Mazza , Talice and Jorg , 1942 , p . 8 , figs . 1-11 , pl . 1 . Neotriatoma circummaculata : Pinto , 1931 , p . 121 , figs . 32 , 61 . Abalos and Wygodzinsky , 1961 , p . 128 , figs . 241 , 253 . Di Primio , 1962 , p . 16 , fig . 2 . Length of male 15-16 mm , of female 15-17 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 3 . 0-3 . 5 mm , of abdomen of male 5-6 mm , of female 6 mm Overall color dark brown or black , with bright red markings on pronotum , corium , and connexivum ; extension of markings variable . Pilosity very short , inconspicuous , insects appearing glabrous . Head of general body color , delicately rugose and granulose , with setae short and inapparent . Head from twice to slightly more than twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 4-0 . 5 ) , and much longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 7-0 . 8 ) . Anteocular region about two and one-half times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 35-0 . 4 ) , postocular with sides distinctly convex , angularly projecting . Clypeus narrow , gradually widened on posterior half . Genae large , rounded distally , slightly projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus . Eyes in lateral view surpassing level of under surface but remote from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 35-1 . 75 . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment very short , not projecting beyond middle of genae . Second antennal segment comparatively thick , beset with longitudinal rows of stout adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 3- 4 . 0 : 3 . 0-4 . 2 ; 2 . 0-2 . 7 . Rostrum in most specimens light brown , contrasting with dark head . Setae of rostrum very short and sparse except scattered longer ones on apical portion of third segment . First segment very short , not attaining basal third of distance between apex of antenniferous tubercles and apex of head ; second segment extending to level of anterior border of eyes or slightly beyond , third as long as second , reaching to or even beyond base of neck . First segment subcylindrical , second from subcylindrical to slightly flattened , third very strongly flattened dorsoventrally , very thin in lateral view , and in some specimens distinctly curved . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 : 2 . Neck dark brown , with a pair of lateral reddish spots . Pronotum with anterior lobe from dark brown to black , posterior lobe pigmented as anterior lobe , or from partially to entirely bright red . Fore lobe delicately granulose on ridges , and without discal or lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe feebly rugose . Submedian carinae penetrating only to anterior fourth or fifth of posterior lobe , obsolete beyond . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral projections laterally directed , very short , subconical , blunt apically . Scutellum of general dark color , rarely apex of posterior process lighter colored ; central depression of scutellum distinctly delimited by carinae . Posterior process short , only half as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , subconical , tapering to rounded and in some cases slightly upwardly bent point . Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of urotergite VII . Corium dark brown or blackish , red at base and with smaller reddish spot subapically ; these spots in some individuals more extended and occasionally confluent . Membrane brown , fumose , almost as dark as dark portions of corium . Legs uniformly dark , comparatively short ; fore femur 5 . 5 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with one pair of small subapical denticles . Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Venter rounded below in both sexes , rarely very slighjly flattened in female . Integument of venter delicately striate transversally , sparsely and inconspicuously pilose . Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture . Venter dark brown , connexivum bright red , with transverse black stripe straddling intersegmental suture ; transverse markings very narrow , only about one-fifth as long as red areas . Light color of connexivum invading urostemites , especially at spiracles .