Triatoma costalimai Verano and Galvao Figures 56-58 Triatoma costalimai Verano and Galviio , 1959 , p . 199 , 4 figs . Length of male 26 mm , of female 25 . 5-26 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 5 . 0-5 . 5 mm , of abdomen of male and female 7 . 5-8 . 0 mm Overall color dark brown to black , with reddish markings on neck , corium and connexivum . Pilosity short and sparse . Head black , feebly rugose and granulose-punctate , approximately twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 45 ) , and distinctly longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 75 ) . Anteocular region four times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 25 ) , postocular with sides almost straight , distinctly converging posteriorly . Clypeus narrow , gradually widened behind middle . Genae pointed , projecting beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae angular apically . Eyes small , in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 6-2 . 0 . Antenniferous tubercles inserted at middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus ; second with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 5 . 6-6 . 4 : 4 . 4 : 3 . 2 . Rostrum as dark as head or somewhat lighter . First rostral segment attaining or slightly surpassing level of hind margin of eyes . Rostrum stout ; first segment and most of under surface of second with short hairs ; upper surface of second segment , especially toward apex , and entire third segment with numerous very dense setae longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 6-2 . 7 : 1 . Neck dark , with pair of lateral reddish spots . Pronotum entirely dark brown or black . Fore lobe feebly sculptured and weakly granulose , with l + l barely perceptible discal tubercles ; lateral tubercles absent . Hind lobe heavily rugose . Submedian carinae extending close to posterior margin of sclerite . Humeral angles rounded . Scutellum heavily rugose , with well-developed central depression . Posterior process almost as long as main body of scutellum , subcylindrical or somewhat compressed laterally , its apex slightly elevated , narrowly rounded in dorsal and obliquely truncate in lateral view . Hemelytra attaining posterior border of seventh urotergite , in both sexes . Corium and clavus black , apex of corium bordered with reddish , and conspicuous orange-red marking subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell . Membrane dark gray , faintly tinged with reddish ; veins of membrane black . Legs uniformly dark , slender . Fore femora eight times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with one pair of small denticles subapically . Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of male , absent in female . Venter convex in both sexes , highly polished , appearing glabrous , delicately striate transversally . Spiracles adjoining connexival suture . Urosternites dark brown ; spiracles yellowish . Connexivum extensively dark brown ; connexival segments each with orange-red marking of variable width extending along outer connexival border ; dark portion of connexivum advancing towards external border along intersegmental sutures .