BELMINUS STAL Belminus 1943c , p . Stal , 498 . 1859 , Usinger , p . 101 ; 1944 , 1868 , p . 31 . p . Herrer , 123 . Lent , Lent and Wygodzinsky , 1954 , p . 85 . Marlianus Distant , 1902 , p . 191 . Small Triatominae of 8 . 5-12 . 0 mm in length ; general color black . Body surface granulose and rugose . Head elongate fusiform , two and one-half to three times as long as wide . Genae compressed laterally , platelike , their apex widely rounded , considerably surpassing clypeus . and leaving part of bucculae exposed . Clypeus approximately parallel-sided , slightly tapering at base . Postocular region with sides subparallel or convex . Postocular furrow perceptible , broadly Ushaped . Eyes medium-sized , in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head . Ocelli small or obsolescent , laterally oriented , situated at or slightly laterad of levels Fm . 295 . Cladogram of the hypothesized relationships of the genera of Bolboderini . of inner tangents of eyes . Antennae inserted slightly apicad of middle of anteocular region . Second and fourth antennal segments the longest , third slightly shorter . Second segment with four trichobothria arranged in one row . Rostrum attaining prosternum , subcylindrical , only very slightly compressed dorsoventrally ; first and second segments elongate , subequal in length , third very short . Pronotum with fore lobe narrow ; median constriction prominent . Anterior lobe granulose , with 7 + 7 discal tubercles . Anterolateral angles salient . Posterior lobe of pronotum with sides carinate ; submedian carinae almost attaining posterior margin ; surface of lobe heavily rugose transversally . Scutellum triangular , with l + l lateral subtriangular projections ; posterior process subconical or slightly flattened , as long as main body of scutellum . Hemelytra falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen , in both sexes . Cu inserted on base of inner membranal cell near inner angle of cell very close to claval suture , meeting claval suture halfway to base of hemelytron , forming very narrow triangle with claval suture . R + M from distinct to obsolescent , not connected by small branch to Sc ; divided apically into separate R and M . Corium heavily rugose transversally . Hind wings with hamus abbreviated . Secondary vein simple . Legs short . Under surface of femora with one to three denticles , one much larger than remaining . Tibiae slender , slightly curved , distinctly compressed laterally , with distinct ventral carina . Spongy fossulae absent . Tarsi medium sized , three segmented . Venter abruptly flattened at center . Connexivum wide dorsally , perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow , from one-third to one-fourth as wide as dorsal connexival plates . Dorsal connexival segments with conspicuous longitudinal ridge . Spiracles very close to apparent connexival suture . MALE GENITALIA : Pygophore with median process short , pointed . Articulatory apparatus with stapes slightly longer than wide ; pedicel narrow and very elongate . Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint ; struts narrow , subparallel , not fused . Genitalia of female . Truncate apically , terminal tergites subvertical . Fifth instar nymph : With the characters of the tribe ; setae not scalelike ; first and second rostral segments subequal in length ; genae platelike ; laterally compressed , apex rounded in side view ; femora with large denticles ; tibiae without spongy fossulae ; tarsi elongate , several times as long as diameter of tibiae apically . First instar nymph : As described for tribe ; first rostral segment over half as long as second ; spongy fossulae absent ; setae of urotergites in two distinct transverse rows .