Parabelminus Lent , 1943c , p . 497 . Triatominae of 9-10 mm in length . Basic color black . Distinct , short adpressed setae on most body parts . Head from one and one-half to twice as long as wide , shallowly but distinctly excavate longitudinally on under surface for reception of rostrum . Genae compressed laterally , their apex widely rounded , considerably surpassing clypeus , and completely covering bucculae . Clypeus wide anteriorly , narrowed posteriorly . Postocular region subrectangular , with sides slightly coverging towards behind . Postocular furrow obsolescent . Eyes medium-sized , in lateral view surpassing level of ventral but not attaining level of dorsal surface of head . Ocelli very small , obsolescent , laterally oriented , situated at level of inner tangents of eyes . Antennae inserted on anterior third of anteocular region . First segment short , second and third segments subequal in size , fourth slightly longer . Second segment with three equidistant trichobothria . Rostrum attaining prosternum , distinctly flattened dorsoventrally ; first and third segment shortest , second much longer . Pronotum with anterior lobe covered by setiferous granules forming distinct pattern ; anterolateral angles short . Posterior lobe with humeri rounded ; submedian carinae almost attaining hind border ; surface of posterior lobe rugose-granulose . Scutellum subsemicircular , exposed portion subtrapezoidal ; posterior process absent . Surface of scutellum heavily rugose . Hemelytra falling distinctly short of apex of abdomen , in both sexes . Cu inserted on base of inner cell of membrane remote from inner angle of cell , conspicuously curved , meeting claval suture at center of latter , enclosing wide subtriangular cell . R + M obsolescent , connected on its basal half by small branch to Sc ; apical subdivision into R and M not discernible . Hind wing with hamus attaining base of wing ; secondary vein bifurcate . Legs short , granulose . Femora stout , with l + 1 short , spinelike teeth on under surface subapically . Lower surface of femora smooth , somewhat concave , closely fitting tibia when legs closed . Tibiae short , widened , distinctly compressed laterally , conspicuously narrowed at base . Spongy fossulae present on all three pairs of legs , small , not longer than width of tibia apically . Tarsi short , about one fifth the length of tibia , two-segmented . Abdomen heavily rugose dorsally and ventrally ; portion of basal tergite exposed between hemelytra . Central area of venter slightly convex only , but not abruptly flattened . Connexivum very wide dorsally , connexival segments as wide as one-fifth of width of abdomen ; perceptible ventral portion of connexivum very narrow , from one-fourth to one-fifth of width of dorsal connexival segments . Spiracles remote from connexival suture . MALE GENITALIA : Pygophore with short , narrow , subrectangular apical process . Articulatory apparatus short , transverse , subrectangular ; pedicel very short . Struts separated at base , their apical portion fused into narrow tonguelike structure . Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma faint . Genitalia of female truncate apically , terminal tergites vertical . Fifth instar nymph ( not seen , characters deduced from those of fourth instar nymph ) . With the characters of the tribe ; setae not scalelike ; first rostral segment much shorter than second ; genae platelike , compressed laterally , their apex rounded in side view ; femora with small but distinct denticles ; tibiae with spongy fossulae on all pairs ; tarsi very short , about twice as long as diameter of tibia apically . First instar nymph : As described for tribe ; first rostral segment less than half as long as second ; spongy fossulae on all pairs of legs ; setae of urotergites in three irregular transverse rows .