Triatoma dispar Lent Figures 65 , 66 Conorrhinus venosus Champion , 1899 , p . 209 , pl . 12 , fig . 23 ( nee Stal ) . Triatoma venosa : Usinger , 1944 , p . 61 , pl . 9 , fig . I ( nee Stal ) . Triatoma dispar Lent , 1950 , p . 437 , figs . 3 , 4Le6n , 1953 , p . 3 , fig . D . Galindo and Fairchild , 1962 , p . 229 . Vargas and Montero , 1971 , p . 454 , figs . 1-4 . Length of male 21 . 0-22 . 5 mm , of female 23-24 mm , width of pronotum of male 5 . 0-5 . 5 mm , of female 7 . 0 mm ; width of abdomen of male 5 . 5-6 . 5 mm , of female 8 . 0-8 . 5 mm Overall color dark reddish brown , with black markings on head , fore lobe of pronotum and connexivum , and with red or yellowish red markings on hind lobe of pronotum , scutellum , connexivum , and hemelytra . Pilosity conspicuous , decumbent , golden colored . Head rugose and granulose , reddish brown , with 1 + 1 glabrous black stripes extending dorsally from level of base of clypeus to ocellar tubercles , enclosing elevated median granulose band . Head about twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 4-0 . 5 ) , and longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 8-0 . 9 ) . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 3 ) , postocular with sides only very feebly convex , distinctly converging toward behind . Clypeus extremely narrow , only very slightly widened on posterior half . Genae narrow , rounded apically , not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus . Eyes in lateral view attaining level of ventral but not of dorsal surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 0 . 9-1 . 0 . Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region of head . First and second antennal segments dark brown ; first falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus . Second antennal segment with decumbent setae of two sizes , the larger ones slightly longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 0-2 . 4 : 2 . 2 : 1 . 8 . Rostrum reddish brown , with short , inconspicuous setae . First rostral segment short , not extending beyond middle of genae , second very long and slender , reaching to level of posterior border of head ; third longer than first . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 3 . 4-3 . 8 : 1 . 3-1 . 4 . Neck uniformly reddish brown . Pronotum of general reddish brown color . Anterior lobe with elevated areas reddish brown , smooth areas black . Posterior lobe dark brown , with submedian carinae , one median and 1 + 1 sublateral elongate red markings extending from transverse furrow to posterior margin of pronotum , red . Lateral and posterior margins of pronotum also red , except area occupied by submedian dark markings which extend to hind border . Anterolateral angles extensively reddish . Anterior lobe with 1+ 1 well-developed discal tubercles , and 1+ 1 smaller posterosublateral ones ; lateral tubercles absent . Posterior lobe heavily rugose and wrinkled . Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of pronotum . Humeral angles rounded , with humeri distinctly elevated . Anterolateral projections subtriangular , salient , elongate , somewhat compressed laterally . Scutellum reddish brown , in some cases black at middle of central depression , anteriorly with convolute wrinkles . Posterior process of scutellum light red or yellowish , stout , not over half as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , subcylindrical , roundedtruncate apically . Pleura reddish brown , acetabula lighter . Hemelytra covering entire length of abdomen , including genitalia of female . Color of hemelytra dark brown ; most veins yellowish , those of membrane dark but bordered with yellow . Corium with short accessory veinlike elements , their color also yellow . Clavus yellow on basal third , blackish on apical twothirds . Area of corium adjacent to apical portion of clavus deeply black , similar black areas on basal portions of membranal cells , very conspicuously so on base of outer membranal cell . Lumen of membranal cells and of adjacent areas of membrane variegated with pale yellowish . Legs dark reddish brown , relatively slender , with fore femur seven times as long as wide . Femora nodulose , nodules light red ; pilosity distinct . Fore and mid femora subapically with four or five denticles , hind femora with two . Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Abdomen rounded or very slightly flattened below , minutely striate transversally . Spiracles adjacent or very close to connexival suture . Pilosity of venter distinct , decumbent , or adpressed . Venter from reddish brown to dark brown ; spiracles yellowish . Connexivum black , each segment with two orangeyellow marks : one , incomplete , on anterior third of disc of segment , adjacent to outer but not attaining inner border of segment , the other large spot extending over entire width of segment , situated on its basal third , adjoining intersegmental suture which is also light colored ; dark markings ( in some specimens ) much reduced , as shown in figure 66D .