Triatoma flavida Neiva Figures 70 , 71 Rhodosisu probixus : Valdes , 1910 , p . 435 ( sic ; nee Stl ) . Rhoduris prolixus : Valdes , 1914 , p . IOI ( sic ; nee Stl ) . Rhodnius prolixus : Hoffman , 1922 , p . 263 ( nee StI ) . Triatoma flavida Neiva , 1911c , p . 441 . Hoffmann , 1923 , p . 299 , figs . 1-2 . Autuori , 1932 , p . 271 , figs . 1-6 Conorhinus flavida : Patton and Cragg , 1913 , p . 495 . Meccus jlavidus : Fracker and Bruner , 1924 , p . 165 . Eutriatoma flavida : Pinto , 1931 , p . 88 , fig . 33 Bruner and Barber , 1937 , p . 183 Triatoma ( Eutriatoma ) flavida : Lima , 1940 , p . 198 . Nesotriatomaflavida : Usinger , 1944 , p . 39 ; 1946 , p 20 . Maldonado and Farr , 1962 , p . 190 , figs . 19 , 20 . Alayo , 1967 , p . 28 , pl . 6 , fig . 2Nesotriatoma bruneri Usinger , 1944 , p . 39 , pl . 8 , fig . E . Length of male 21-28 mm , of female 24-30 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 5-7 mm , of abdomen of male and female 7-9 mm Overall color light yellowish brown , with small dark brown spots ; under surface dark . Integument rugose and faintly granulose in some areas . Setae very short , scalelike , sparse . Head dorsally strongly rugose and faintly granulose , light yellowish brown , with l + 1 longitudinal dark brown or black stripes extending from level of antenniferous tubercles to neck . Head laterally and ventrally dark brown , rugose . Head twice as long as wide across eyes ( l : 0 . 5 ) , and slightly longer than or as long as pronotum ( l : 0 . 9-1 . 0 ) . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( l : 0 . 33-0 . 38 ) , postocular with sides subparallel , very slightly converging behind . Clypeus narrow anteriorly , abruptly widened behind middle , and very narrow again on posterior third . Genae attaining level of apex of clypeus , narrowly tapering apically but not pointed . Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but not of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 2 in small specimens , 1 : 1 . 7 in large males and 1 : 1 . 5 in large females . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind middle of anteocular region . First and second antennal segments from yellowish brown to dark brown ; first segment falling slightly short of level of apex of clypeus . Second antennal segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 7-3 . 1 : 1 . 9-2 . 4 : 1 . 5 . Rostrum slender , with short inconspicuous setae except scattered long hairs on distal segment . First rostral segment not attaining level of antenniferous tubercles , second extending to level of neck ; third shorter than first . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 4-2 . 6 : 0 . 7-0 . 8 . Neck dark brown , with l + l lateral yellow spots . Pronotum of general body color ; smooth area of fore lobe black , impressions of posterior lobe dark brown . Posterior lobe margined with dark along declivous hind border . Anterior lobe with discal and lateral tubercles . Tubercles of varying size , the discal ones from rounded to strong subconical ; development of tubercles not correlated with overall size of specimens . Hind lobe with sides strongly flaring , heavily and irregularly rugose , not granulose . Submedian carinae evanescent on posterior third of lobe , interrupted by transverse rugosities . Humeral angles entirely yellowish , angular , explanate . Anterolateral angles yellowish , elongate conical with narrowly rounded apex . Scutellum dark , elevated portion yellowish , coarsely and irregularly rugose , anteriorly with l + l forwardly inclined projections of variable size , overlapping declivous posterior margin of pronotum . Carinae limiting central depression of scutellum divided by transverse rugosities into a series of tubercles . Posterior process of scutellum yellowish , horizontal , subcylindrical , swollen apically , rounded at tip . Hemelytra slightly variable in length , reaching to seventh urotergite , in some cases not extending beyond its basal third , in others covering urotergite completely . Hemelytra of general color , extensively mottled with irregularly shaped dark dots of variable size . Dots most numerous and densest at base of membranal cells , otherwise membrane not or only very slightly darker than corium . Legs dark reddish brown , relatively slender ; fore femur from six to seven times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora ventrally on apical half with from eight to ten very small setiferous denticles , some arranged in pairs , others single ; subapical denticles the largest . Tibiae of first and second pairs of legs of males with spongy fossulae ; females with spongy fossulae only on fore tibiae , or absent . Abdomen with venter from convex to , in most cases , slightly but distinctly flattened , in both sexes . Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of relatively coarse transverse striation . Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture , their distance from suture equal to at least diameter of spiracles . Pilosity of venter very short , sparse , adpressed , scalelike . Venter dark reddish brown , spiracles enclosed in small yellow area . Connexivum light yellowish brown ; in wellpreserved specimens each segment with two dark spots : a large anterior one adjacent to anterior margin of segment , irregularly shaped posteriorly , extending across entire width of segment although darkest along outer margin , and one very small dot , obsolescent in some specimens , adjacent to posterior border of segment , remote from lateral margin .