Triatoma guasayana Wygodzinsky and Abalos Figures 74-76 Triatoma guasayana Wygodzinsky and Abalos , 1949 , p . 2 ; 1950 , p . 54 , figs . I , 4-6 , 8-11 . Abalos and Wygodzinsky , 1951 , p . 84 , figs . 40 , 45 , 62 , 150-174 . Carcavallo and Martinez , 1968 , p . 37 , fig . 11 . Martinez and Cichero , 1972 , p . 34 , fig . 20 . Length of male 16 . 0-18 . 5 mm , of female 18 . 0-20 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male 3 . 5-4 . 0 , of female 4 . 0-4 . 5 mm ; width of abdomen of male 5 . 5-6 . 5 mm , of female 6-9 mm Overall color very dark brown or black , with pale yellow markings on neck , hemelytra , legs and connexivum . Integument with short sparse setae . Head dark , rugose and granulose , heavily so on sides of head before and behind eyes . Head slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 55-0 . 60 ) and distinctly longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 85-0 . 90 ) . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 35 ) , postocular with sides slightly rounded , converging toward behind . Clypeus narrow , only slightly widened behind middle . Genae narrowly tapering or pointed distally , distinctly extending beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae angular apically . Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 2-2 . 0 . Antenniferous tubercles inserted slightly behind middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus ; second segment compressed , beset with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 6-3 . 8 : 2 . 5-2 . 8 : 2 . 0-2 . 4 . Rostrum from yellowish to light brown , contrasting with dark head . Setae of rostrum sparse and short , those of apical segment more elongate , but not longer than diameter of segment . First rostral segment very short , extending only to level of apex of jugae , second not quite reaching level of hind margin of eyes . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 60-1 . 95 : 1 . 10-1 . 20 . Neck dark , with a pair of lateral yellow spots . Pronotum sparsely granulose , blackish , in some specimens with anterior and lateral tubercles of anterior lobe and with apex of anterolateral projections yellowish . Anterior lobe with discal and with lateral tubercles , none prominent . Posterior lobe strongly wrinkled , uniformly dark . Submedian carinae not prominent , evanescent on posterior third of hind lobe . Humeral angles narrowly rounded , subangular . Anterolateral projections of pronotum small , conical , somewhat flattened dorsoventrally . Scutellum coarsely rugose , with distinct central depression . Posterior process of scutellum slightly less than half as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , subcylindrical , obliquely truncate at apex , in lateral view . Pleura dark , acetabula with small areas yellowish . Hemelytra attaining or surpassing apex of seventh urotergite in male , in female more variable in length , from falling short of apex of seventh urotergite by up to 2 mm to closely approaching it . Corium largely pale yellow , irregularly darkened at center , with veins of central portion conspicuouslydark . Membrane fumose , light brown , much lighter than darker portions of corium . Veins of membrane somewhat darker than cells but not strikingly so , and portion of Cu separating cells not darker than remainder of vein and not bordered with dark . Legs with coxae dark brown ; trochantera and femora pale yellow , the latter with subapical annulus , in some cases also darkened subbasally . Tibiae from yellow to brown , with narrow basal annulus very pale , and apex darkest ; yellow portions of legs of varying color intensity . Legs relatively slender , fore femora about six times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with pair of stout denticles subapically . Spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae of males , absent in females . Venter convex , very slightly flattened in females , delicately striate transversally . Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture . Venter uniformly brown except small areas at outer margin adjacent to connexivum ; the latter pale yellow , dorsally and ventrally with dark spot at margin , straddling intersegmental suture ; in some cases , transverse narrow dark line along intersegmental sutures .