Triatoma guazu , new species Figures 77-79 DIAGNOSIS : This species resembles T oliveirai , but differs from the latter by many characters , such as the short rostral setae , the larger eyes and ocelli , the unicolorous pronotum , the horizontal scutellar process , the nonabbreviated hemelytra , and the quite different shape of the ninth urotergite . Female ( only sex known ) . Length 30 mm , width of pronotum 7 mm , of abdomen 12 mm Overall color black , with yellow markings on neck , corium and connexivum . Pilosity short and sparse ; integument polished . Head black , rugose , weakly granulose , twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 5 ) , and longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 9 ) . Anteocular region four times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 25 ) , postocular with sides straight , converging toward behind . Clypeus narrow , only slightly widened on posterior half . Genae narrowly rounded apically , extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae narrowly rounded distally . Eyes large , in lateral view slightly surpassing level of lower and but little distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 25 . Ocelli large , their distance from eyes equal to their length . Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head . First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 4 . 8 : 2 . 8 : ? . Rostrum dark reddish brown ; first article falling slightly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle , second attaining level of hind margin of eyes . Rostrum stout , with relatively sparse hairs , shorter than diameter of respective articles , longest at base of third article dorsally . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 5 : 1 . 2 . Neck black , with l+ 1 lateral spots yellow . Pronotum entirely black . Anterior lobe weakly sculptured , without discal or lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe rugose ; submedian carinae extending to posterior third of posterior lobe . Humeri broadly rounded . Anterolateral projections laterally directed , very small , subconical . Scutellum black , strongly rugose , median depression shallow , small . Posterior process of scutellum short , one-half as long as main body of sclerite , narrowly rounded distally , horizontal , with apex slightly downtumed . Hemelytra attaining apex of eighth urotergite , their overall color pale . Clavus black at base and narrowly along outer border . Basal half of corium light yellow ; apical half of corium and entire membrane light yellowish brown ; membrane fumose . Veins of hemelytra dark brown except pale at base of corium . Legs entirely black . Fore femora 6 . 3 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with pair of small subapical denticles . Spongy fossulae absent ( male unknown ) . Abdomen wide , with most urotergites narrowly exposed . Venter convex , slightly flattened longitudinally along middle , delicately striate transversally , with sparse short setae . Spiracles close to but not adjoining connexival suture . Apex of abdomen as shown in figure 79D , with sides of eighth urotergite rounded . Urosternites black . Connexivum black , disc of each segment with large subrectangular yellow spot , extending ventrally from outer margin to connexival suture and enclosing spiracle on adjacent portion of urosternite ; dorsally , yellow spot not attaining connexival suture . Intersegmental sutures enclosed in narrow transverse black band .