Triatoma incrassata U singer Figures 82 , 83 Triatoma incrassata Usinger , 1939 , p . 45 ; 1944 , p . 70 , pl . 12 , fig . D . Triatoma incrassata incrassata : Ryckman , 1962 , p . 109 , pl . 9 , fig . Q . Triatoma incrassata apachensis Ryckman , 1962 , p . 119 , pl . 9 , fig . R . Length of male 17 . 5 , of female 19 . 0-19 . 8 mm ; width of pronotum of male 4 . 0 , of female 4 . 5 mm , of abdomen of male 6 . 0 , of females 6 . 5 mm Head granulose , distinctly convex above , slightly less than twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 6 ) , and distinctly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 2 ) . Anteocular region over twice as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 4 ) , postocular with sides rounded but less prominently so than in barberi , verrucose . Clypeus narrow anteriorly , very strongly swollen posteriorly . Head with distinctive arcuate impression at base of clypeus . Genae narrowly tapered anteriorly , almost attaining level of apex of clypeus . Upper surface of head in side view with clypeus and region above eyes strongly elevated , separated by very deep depression ; under surface sinuate , salient behind eyes . Eyes remote from level of dorsal and almost attaining level of under surface of head . Eyes small , ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 3 . 0-3 . 5 . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind level of center of anteocular region . First antennal segment extending beyond two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus . Second segment only with short adpressed setae . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 9-3 . 2 : 2 . 3-2 . 4 : 1 . 8 . Rostrum with relatively short hairs , the latter becoming longer at apex of second and uniformly long on third segment . First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle , second attaining level of posterior border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 25 : 0 . 40 . Neck with I+ 1 lateral light-colored spots . Pronotum uniformly dark , trapezoi dal , with sides conspicuously diverging toward behind , delicately carinate , only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus . Anterior lobe distinctly elevated , granulose on rough areas , without discal or lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe rugose , submedian carinae falling short of hind margin . Humeri rounded , distinctly elevated . Anterolateral angles salient , anterolaterally directed , rounded apically . Scutellum rugose , central portion distinctly impressed , limited laterally by sharp carinae . Apical process of scutellum very short , conical , half as long as main body of scutellum , its apex deflected . Hemelytra falling short of apex of abdomen by 0 . 5 mm in female , practically attaining apex of abdomen in male ; of general body color , but membrane dark brown , fumose , somewhat lighter colored along base . Legs uniformly dark , short and stout ; fore femora 3 . 5-3 . 7 times as long as wide , minutely granulose . Fore and mid femora with four to five small denticles subapically . Male with minute spongy fossula on fore and mid tibiae . Females with spongy fossula on fore tibia only . Venter convex , its setae inconspicuous . Urosternites minutely striate transversally . Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture . Connexivum entirely yellow ventrally and broadly along entire connexival margin dorsally ; inner portion of dorsal connexival segments of general body color .