Triatoma mexicana ( Herrich-Schaeffer ) Figures 6C ; 113 , 114 Conorhinus mexicanus Herrich-Schaeffer , 1848 , p . 71 , pl . 272 , figs . 839 , 840 . Meccus mexicanus : Stal , 1859 , p . 105 . Triatoma mexicana : Del Ponte , 1930 , p . 886 . Pinto , 1931 , p . 71 , fig . 23 . Mazzotti , 1940b , p . 2 , fig . 1 . Usinger , 1944 , p . 52 , pl . 9 , fig . C . Male . Length 25-26 mm ; width of thorax 5 . 5-6 . 0 mm , of abdomen 9-10 mm General color black , with yellow markings on neck , corium , and connexivum . Head long and narrow , longer than pronotum ( l : 0 . 85 ) , delicately and sparsely granulose , dorsum transversally rugose along middle . Anteocular region three times as long as postocular , the latter with sides faintly rounded , slightly converging toward behind . Clypeus narrow , widened posteriorly . Genae narrowly tapered apically , not attaining level of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt apically . Eyes prominent , in lateral view extending below level of under but not attaining level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 0-1 . 3 . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly bel ; ind middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus . Second ( and third ) segments with strong declinate setae somewhat longer than diameter of segment , and with very numerous short , delicate , erect hairs . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 4 : 2 . 7-3 . 0 : 2 . 5 . Rostrum slender , with very short and sparse setae , becoming slightly longer on third segment . First rostral segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle , second extending to level of base of neck . Ratio of rostral segments l : 1 . 70-1 . 75 : 0 . 45-0 . 50 . Neck black , with I+l lateral yellow spots . Pronotum uniformly black . Anterior lobe smooth , ridges not prominent ; discal tubercles present , elongate conical . Lateral tubercles distinct but smaller , subconical . Posterior lobe rugose , with lateral portions flaring ; sides forming conspicuous angle with sides of fore lobe . Submedian carinae not attaining hind border of pronotum . Humeral angles acute , explanate or not . Sides of posterior lobe slightly reflexed , more strongly so posteriorly . Anterolateral angles prominent , spinelike . Scutellum with central portion depressed , rugose , sclerite carinate laterally . Posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum , cylindrical , declinate apically . Hemelytra from approaching to slightly surpassing apex of abdomen . Clavus black on basal half , brownish translucent on apical portion . Corium yellow , including deflexed portion at its base , with large black spot along R extending almost . to lateral margin and to basal portion of M ; cu and m-cu crossvein equally black . Base of dark area of Cu connected to sublateral dark spot ; apex of corium black . Almost entire lateral border of corium narrowly yellow . Legs black , slender , fore femora 8 . 5-9 . l times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with a pair of small subapical denticles . Anterior tibiae of male with very small spongy fossula , absent on second pair ( female not examined ) . Abdomen convex , flattened ventrally on segments III-V , flattened portion not limited by a ridge . Venter polished , minutely striate transversally , its setae inconspicuous . Spiracles distant from connexival suture by approximately twice their diameter . General color of abdomen black . Connexivum yellow , with irregularly shaped black markings on anterior third or half of each segment adjacent to intersegmental suture . Female . ( Not seen ; data taken from illustration in Herrich-Schaeffer , 1848 ) . Similar to male , but with hemelytra abbreviated , not extending beyond base of seventh urotergite . Abdomen strongly widened , with hemelytra leaving lateral portions of urotergites exposed .