Triatoma migrans Breddin Figures 19C ; 115 , 116 Triatoma migrans Breddin , 1903 , p . Ill . Larrousse , 1924a , p . 69 , fig . 4 . Lent , 195ld , p . 426 . Triatoma pallidula Miller , 1941 , p . 787 , fig . lla-c . ( new synonymy ) . Length of male 22 . 5-24 . 5 mm ( very rarely 20 mm ) , of female 23 . 5-25 . 0 mm ; width of pronotum of male 6 . 5-7 . 0 mm , of female 6 . 5-7 . 5 mm ; width of abdomen of male 9-10 mm , of female 6 . 5-7 . 0 mm Overall color from yellowish to reddish brown , with dark brown or black markings on head , pronotum , corium , and connexivum . Integument rugose , granulose in some areas . Setae very short and sparse . Head granulose and slightly rugose dorsally , reddish brown with 1 + l longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally . Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes ( l : 0 . 6 ) and distinctly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 2 ) . Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular ( l : 0 . 35 ) , postocular with sides rounded , subsemicircular . Clypeus narrow anteriorly , abruptly widened on basal half which is conspicuously elevated in side view . Genae rounded apically in lateral view , considerably surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Eyes distinctly surpassing level of under surface and close to level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 5-1 . 8 . Ocelli unusually close to eyes , distance from ocellus to eye shorter than diameter of ocellus . First and second antennal segments dark brown or black ; first very short , not extending beyond basal two-thirds of gena . Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 8-4 . 2 : 2 . 4-2 . 9 : 1 . 9-2 . 6 . Rostrum with short , inconspicuous setae except distally on second and on third segment , but not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments . First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercles , second attaining level of hind border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 3-1 . 5 : 0 . 4- 0 . 5 . Neck of uniform reddish color . Pronotum reddish brown ; dark brown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four dark longitudinal stripes on posterior lobe , I+ I in areas between submedian carinae and outer border and 1 + 1 in space between carinae , adjacent to same . Anterior lobe granulose on elevated areas , with obsolescent discal and without lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe strongly rugose , only faintly granulose . Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior margin . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral angles with unusually elongate , fingerlike , distally rounded projections . Scutellum with variable color pattern , in many cases black on anterior half and with apical process light colored , but in some specimens either color more or less widely extended . Posterior process only two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , subconical , strongly tapering from wide base to narrow apex . Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen , in both sexes . Corium dark at base , at apex and along extemal margin , and with irregularly shaped large central spot dark . Subbasal and subapical yellowish or reddish markings connected or not by a narrow light line along apical portion of R . Membrane as dark as dark portions of corium . Legs dark reddish brown , stout ; fore femora 4 . 0-4 . 5 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with 3-4 subapical denticles . Tibiae of first and second pair of males with small spongy fossulae , absent in females . Abdomen rounded below although only very slightly so along center longitudinally . Surface microsculpture of venter consisting of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles ; transverse striation not developed . Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or distant from same by diameter of spiracles . Pilosity of venter inapparent . Abdomen of general body color . Connexivum reddish , dorsally and ventrally with subrectangular transverse dark spot at center of each segment .