Triatoma nitida Usinger Figures 122-124 Triatoma nitida Usinger , 1939 , p . 43 ; 1944 , p . 71 . Length of male 19 . 5-21 . 5 mm , of female 21 . 0-22 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male 4 . 5-5 . 0 mm , of female 5 . 0-5 . 5 mm ; of abdomen of male 6 . 5-7 . 0 , of female 7 . 2 8 . 0 mm General color dark brown to black , with orange-yellow markings on head , neck , pronotum , acetabula , corium , and connexivum . Setae short , inapparent . Head of general body color but dorsally with orange-yellow markings of varied extension , from covering almost entire surface to only covering clypeus . Head heavily rugose , very slightly granulose , distinctly convex above , not over twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 5 ) , and distinctly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 2-1 . 3 ) . Anteocular region two and one-half times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 4 ) ; postocular with sides only very slightly rounded , widest anteriorly , converging toward behind . Clypeus narrow anteriorly , abruptly widened toward posterior half . Head with distinct arcuate impression at base of clypeus . Genae conspicuously rugose transversally , tapered at apex , almost attaining level of apex of clypeus . Upper surface of head with distinct depression at level of base of clypeus , in side view . Head not salient behind eyes ventrally . Eyes in lateral aspect remote from level of dorsal but extending very close to level of ventral surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . 3-2 . 7 . Antenniferous tubercles closer to eyes than to apex of head . First antennal segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of clypeus . Second segment with decumbent short setae . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 6-2 . 8 : 2 . 3 : 1 . 8-1 . 9 . Rostrum with hairs becoming progressively longer toward apex of second and on third segment , forming dense brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments . First segment falling slightly short of level of apex of antenniferous tubercle , second attaining level of posterior border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 8 : 0 . 6 . Neck dark at center , light colored laterally . Pronotum subquadrate , with sides carinate , not distinctly constricted laterally at level of transverse sulcus . General color of thorax dark brown to black . Pronotum with collar and anterolateral angles , entire lateral border including humeral angles , and elevated looplike elements of anterior lobe , orangeyellow or light yellowish brown . Pronotum polished , anterior lobe not distinctly granulose ; posterior lobe rugose , with sublateral carinae not very prominent . Humeri rounded . Anterolateral angles in shape of dorsoventrally flattened flap , broadly rounded and very short . Acetabula partially or entirely orange-yellow , contrasting with dark pleural areas . Scutellum of general body color but posterior process orange-yellow . Central depressed area of scutellum heavily rugose , limited by broad carinae ; posterior process pointed , not more than half as long as main body of scutellum , declinate at apex . Hemelytra almost reaching apex of abdomen . Corium without perceptible setae , from pale to orange-yellow , with large central dark spot which is longer than wide ; dark pigment also at base of clavus and on apex of corium . Membrane dark fumose . Legs stout , fore femora 4 . 5 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with 2 + 2 denticles subapically . Spongy fossulae present on fore and mid tibiae of males and only on fore tibiae of females . Legs dark brown , in some specimens coxae , trochantera , and base of femora somewhat lighter colored but not strongly contrasting with color or rest of leg . Venter sharply flattened longitudinally along middle , with irregular transverse minute wrinkles . Hairs of venter inapparent . Spiracles close to connexival suture , distant from latter by not more than their own diameter . Urosternites and urotergites of general body color . Connexivum orange-yellow , each segment at middle with large medially constricted dark spot extending across entire width of connexival segment .