Triatoma barberi Usinger Figures 24N , 39 , 40 Triatoma sp . , Mazzotti , 1939b , p . 74 , fig . 2 . Triatoma barberi Usinger , 1939 , p . 44 ; 1944 , p . 72 , pl . 12 , fig . C . Ryckman , 1962 , pl . 9 , fig . P . Length of males 16-18 , of females 18 . 5-20 . 0 mm ; width of pronotum of males 3 . 5-4 . 0 mm , of females 4 . 0-4 . 5 mm ; of abdomen of males 5 . 5-6 . 5 , of females 6 . 5-7 . 0 mm Color from piceous to black , with reddish markings on connexivum . Setae short and sparse . Head , granulose and slightly rugose , distinctly convex above , twice as long as wide across eyes ( l : 0 . 55 ) , and as long as pronotum . Anteocular region slightly over twice as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 45 ) , postocular with sides rounded , verrucose . Clypeus narrow anteriorly , strongly widened on posterior half . Head with distinct arcuate transverse impression at base of clypeus . Genae narrowly tapered apically , almost attaining apex of clypeus . Upper surface of head in side view with distinct depression at level of base of clypeus ; ventrally not salient behind eyes . Eyes in lateral view not attaining level of dorsal but very close to level of under surface of head . Eyes small , ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . 2-3 . 0 . Antenniferous tubercles situated slightly behind level of center of anteocular region . First antennal segment very short , attaining only two-thirds of distance between its base and level of apex of clypeus . Second segment only with short , adpressed setae . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 6-3 . 0 : 1 . 7-2 : 1 . 6-1 . 8 . Rostrum with relatively short hairs , somewhat longer toward apex of second and uniformly Jong on third segment . First segment attaining level of center of antenniferous tubercle , second attaining level of hind border of head . Ratio of rostral segments l : 1 . 2-1 . 4 : 0 . 5-0 . 6 . Pronotum entirely dark , trapezoidal , with sides delicately carinate , only faintly constricted at level of transverse sulcus . Anterior lobe slightly elevated , distinctly granulose on ridges , without discal or lateral tubercles . Posterior lobe distinctly rugose , submedian carinae falling short of hind margin . Humeri rounded , not elevated . Anterolateral angles salient but short , rounded apically . Scutellum rugose ; central portion distinctly impressed , limited laterally by sharp carinae . Apical process of scutellum very short , onehalf as long as main body of scutellum , conical , apex deflected . Hemelytra falling short of apex of abdomen by 0 . 5-1 . 0 mm , in either sex ; uniformly dark colored . Legs uniformly dark , short and stout ; fore femora 4 . 5 times as long as wide , minutely granulose . Fore and median femora with two pairs of subapical denticles . Males with minute spongy fossulae on tibiae of first and second pairs of leg . Females with spongy fossulae on first pair only . Venter slightly but distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle , but flattened portion not distinctly separated from convex one . Urosternites minutely striate transversally ; hairs inconspicuous . Spiracles close but not adjacent to connexival suture . Connexivum from dark red to orange-red , segments with black markings of varied extension , from occupying entire anterior four-fifths of segment to somewhat reduced with two pointed posterior projections , the outer one shorter than the inner one , and to broken up into two dark spots , the outer one small , situated at anteroextemal angle of segment , the inner one large , elongate , adjacent to inner border of connexival segment Dark markings in no case forming continuous longitudinal band .