Triatoma oliveirai ( Neiva , Pinto and Lent ) Figures 127-129 Eutriatoma oliveirai Neiva , Pinto and Lent , 1939 , p . 608 , figs . I , 2 . Triatoma ( Eutriatoma ) o\iveirai : Lima , 1940 , p . 200 . Female ( male unknown ) . Length 25-27 mm ; width of pronotum 5 mm , of abdomen 10 mm Overall color black , with orange or yellow markings on neck , in some cases on pronotum , and on connexivum ; hemelytra largely yellow . Pilosity short and sparse ; integument polished . Head black , rugose , weakly granulose , approximately twice as long as wide ( l : 0 . 45 ) and much longer than pronotum ( l : 0 . 75-0 . 80 ) . Anteocular region approximately three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 3 ) ; postocular with sides straight , slightly converging toward behind . Clypeus elongate , slightly widened on posterior half . Genae narrowly rounded apically , extending considerably beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae narrowly rounded apically . Eyes small , in lateral view close to but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . Ocelli small , their distance from eyes equal to twice their length . Antenniferous tubercles situated at middle of anteocular region of head . First antennal segment approaching level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with adpressed setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 4 . 0-4 . 2 : 2 . 7-3 . 0 : 2 . 2 . Rostrum dark reddish brown ; first segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles , second extending to slightly beyond level of hind margin of eyes . Rostrum stout ; first and second segments with short hairs , apex of second dorsally and entire third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment , most numerous at upper surface near base of third segment . Ratio of rostral segments I : I . 95- 2 . l : l . 0-1 . 2 . Neck black , with I+ 1 lateral spots yellow . Pronotum black , with I+ l large humeral spots yellowish . Anterior lobe feebly sculptured , with I+ I low discal and I+ I more conspicuous lateral tubercles ; these tubercles black or orange yellow . Posterior lobe heavily rugose . Submedian carinae extending to middle of posterior lobe . Humeral angles broadly rounded . Anterolateral projections short , subconical , rounded apically . Scutellum black , heavily rugose , with deep but narrow median depression ; lateral portions of scutellum strongly elevated . Posterior process of scutellum unusually short , only about half as long as main body of scutellum , oblique , subconical , its apex rounded . Hemelytra much shorter than abdomen , attaining or slightly surpassing limit between sixth and seventh urotergites . Overall color of hemelytra pale yellow , on corium as well as on membrane , without dark marks , only veins conspicuously darkened . Clavus of general color , except black at base and along outer margin . Legs uniformly black , slender . Fore femora seven times as long as wide . Femora of all pairs of legs with pair of small denticles subapically . Spongy fossulae absent ( male not known ) . Abdomen very wide , lateral portions of urotergites widely exposed . Venter convex , distinctly but not sharply flattened longitudinally along middle , delicately striate transversally , with sparse , short setae . Spiracles adjoining connexival suture . Apex of abdomen as shown in figure 1290 ; sides of eighth urotergite straight or slightly emarginated . Urosternites black ; connexivum black , disc of each segment with large yellow mark extending from outer margin to connexival suture and ventrally enclosing spiracles ; intersegmental sutures enclosed in narrow transverse black band .