Triatoma petrochii Pinto and Barreto Figures 137-139 Triatoma petrochii Pinto and Barreto , 1925 , p . 769 . Sherlock and Guitton , 1967 , p . 625 , figs . 1-8 . Lucena , 1970 , p . 75 . Espinola , 1971 , p . 278 , figs . 5-7 . Eutriatoma petrochii : Pinto , 1931 , p . 95 . figs . 40-42 . Length of male 17 . 0-21 . 5 mm , of female 18-23 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 3 . 5-5 . 0 mm ; width of abdomen of male 6-8 mm , of female 6-9 mm Overall color dark brown , with yellowish markings on pronotum , scutellum , hemelytra , and connexivum . Integument appearing glabrous , only with very sparse , short , inapparent setae . Head uniformly dark , slightly rugose and granulose , somewhat over twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 40-0 . 45 ) and unusually elongate as compared to pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 70-0 . 75 ) . Anteocular region four times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 25 ) , postocular with sides from very faintly rounded to almost straight , distinctly converging toward behind . Clypeus widened slightly behind middle . Genae narrowly tapering or pointed apically , distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae angular apically . Eyes small , in lateral view approaching but not attaining level of lower and remote from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 8-2 . 0 ( o ) , 1 : 2 . 5 ( c ; > ) . Antenniferous tubercles situated at or slightly before middle of anteocular region . First antennal segment appearing unusually short , extending only slightly beyond half the distance from its base to apex of head , viz . , falling considerably short of level of apex of clypeus . Second segment sybcylindrical , with adpressed setae shorter than its diameter . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 3-4 . 2 : 2 . 3-2 . 8 : 2 . 1-2 . 5 . Rostrum slender , practically glabrous , except for group of long hairs at apex of third segment . First segment not quite attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles , second approaching level of hind margin of eyes . Second segment slightly and third segment strongly flattened dorsoventrally , appearing very thin in lateral view . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 2 . 2-2 . 8 : 1 . 1-1 . 2 . Neck dark , with a pair of light colored spots laterally . Pronotum very sparsely granulose , dark brown , yellow on collar , on discal callosities and in some cases on lateral margins of anterior lobe , on entire submedian carinae and on humeral area . Anterior lobe with discal tubercles reduced to suboval transverse callosities ; lateral tubercles absent . Posterior lobe shallowly rugose . Submedian carinae extending close to hind margin of sclerite . Humeri narrowly rounded , almost angular . Scutellum rugose , dark brown , with shallow central depression . Posterior process almost entirely yellow , about two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , subcylindrical , horizontal , rounded apically . Hemelytra attaining or closely approaching apex of seventh urotergite . Corium dark brown , with irregularly shaped large light yellow markings basally and subapically ; entire costal margin narrowly yellow . Membrane yellowish white , lighter than yellow areas of c rium . Veins of membrane narrowly dark brown ; cells of membrane with conspicuous dark spot of variable extension , centered on vein separating cells . Legs uniformly dark , femora in some specimens slightly lighter at middle . Legs slender ; fore femora 6-7 times as long as wide . Femora either only slightly salient below subapically , or with one or two inconspicuous denticles . Spongy fossulae absent m both sexes . Abdomen slightly flattened below in male and more distinctly so in female . Venter delicately striate transversally , sparsely setose . Spiracles adjoining connexival suture . Venter dark brown , but spiracles enclosed in small yellow area confluent with corresponding yellow spots of connexivum . Connexivum dark brown , segments on disc with large yellowish spot occupying two-thirds of surface of each segment , approaching but not adjoining posterior and remote from anterior intersegmental suture . Both dark and light areas occupying entire width of connexival segments , light areas shortly extending on respective urosternite .