Triatoma phyllosoma ( Burmeister ) Figures 140-142 Conorhinus phyllosoma Burmeister , 1835 , p . 246 Meccus phyllosoma : StAI , 1859 , p . 105 Meccus phyllosomus : StAl , 1872 , p . BO . Banks , 1910 , p . 18 . Van Duzee , 1917 , p . 247 Triatoma phyllosoma : Del Ponte , 1930 , p . 890Mazzoni , 1937 , p . 161 , figs . I , 2 . Usinger , 1944 , p . 58 , pl . 10 , fig . B . Usinger , Wygodzinsky and Ryckman , 1966 , p . 310 , fig . 18 . Length of male 26 . 5-38 . 0 mm , of female 29 . 0-39 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 5 . 5-7 . 3 mm ; width of abdomen of male 12 . 0-14 . 5 mm , of female 11 . 5-18 . 5 mm Body unusually wide , with short and narrow wings . Overall color from dark brown to black , with red or orange-red markings on corium and connexivum . Setae numerous , most delicately hairlike , up to 0 . 5 mm in length . Head black , faintly transversally rugose along center above , not granulose , with numerous stiff black setae . Head about twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 4-0 . 55 ) and slightly longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 90- 0 . 95 ) . Anteocular region from two and one-half to three times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 3-0 . 4 ) ; postocular with sides subparallel , very slightly rounded . Clypeus narrow , widened on posterior half . Genae narrowly rounded distally , attaining or very rarely surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt apically . Eyes in most cases not attaining , very rarely slightly surpassing level of under surface and invariably distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 8-2 . 1 in male , 1 : 1 . 9-2 . 4 in female , viz . , eyes of female generally smaller than those of male . Antenniferous tubercles short , situated slightly behind middle of anteocular portion of head . First antennal segment extending slightly but distinctly beyond level of apex of clypeus ; second antennal segment with stiff decumbent setae about as long as diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 5-2 . 9 : 1 . 8-2 . 2 : 1 . 5-2 . 0 . Rostrum with first segment dark brown or black , second and third segments dark or light reddish brown . First rostral segment attaining level of middle of antenniferous tubercle , second extending to level of neck . Rostral segments stout , sybcylindrical , with short , sparse setae , only third segment with not very dense hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments l : l . 5-1 . 8 : 0 . 5-0 . 6 . Neck laterally with I+ I reddish spots . Pronotum black , strongly constricted at level of transverse sulcus , not granulose , with numerous long erect hairs pointing in several directions . Anterior lobe with elevated areas pilose , remaining surface smooth , dull . Discal tubercles large , pilose . Lateral tubercles well developed although somewhat smaller than discal ones . Posterior lobe distinctly rugose , transversely between carinae , more irregularly so on lateral portions . Submedian carinae not extending beyond basal two-thirds of length of posterior lobe . Humeri distinctly elevated ; humeral angles rounded , narrowly explanate . Anterolateral projections large , elongate conical . Scutellum with median depression distinct but shallow and narrow ; posterior process two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , subcylindrical , horizontal or slightly elevated obliquely , rounded distally and with extreme apex declinate in some cases . Mesosternum and metasternum with long erect hairs . Hemelytra and wings short and narrow , leaving entire connexivum and lateral portions of urotergites exposed . Hemelytra extending in most males and some females only to apex of urotergite V and in most males and some females to urotergite VI but not beyond . Corium with numerous long ( 0 . 3-0 . 4 mm ) decumbent hairs , its surface dull black , with one basal triangular and one subapical subquadrate spot red or orange-red . Clavus black . Membrane sooty or velvety black . Legs black , elongate ; fore femora 6 . 0-7 . 5 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with two subapical denticles , in some individuals barely perceptible . Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes . Venter convex , delicately striate transversally , more irregularly so on lateral portions , and with numerous semierect hairs . Setae of visible portion of dorsal surface of abdomen short . Spiracles remote from connexival suture by a distance equal to several times their diameter . Connexivum unusually wide , black , connexival plates posteriorly with red or orange-red markings extending over entire width of segment , their shape varying from transverse band-shaped to subtriangular , with apex of triangle directed cephalad . Male genitalia with apex of lateral endosoma process heavily denticulate .