Triatoma bouvieri Larrousse Figures 41 , 42 Triatoma bouvieri Larrousse , 1924a , p . 67 , fig . 3 . Lent , 1953b , p . 316 . Panstrongylus bouvieri : Pinto , 1931 , p . 106 . Length of male 17 . 0-18 . 0 mm , of female 19 . 5-20 . 0 mm ; width of pronotum of male 4 . 0-4 . 5 mm , of female 4 . 8 mm ; width of abdomen of male 7 . 0-7 . 8 mm , of female 8 . 0 mm Overall color from yellowish to reddish brown , with dark brown or black markings on head , pronotum , corium , and connexivum . Integument rugose , granulose in some areas . Setae very short and sparse . Head granulose and irregularly rugose above ; its color dark reddish brown with 1 + I longitudinal black stripes on dorsum sublaterally . Head less than twice as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 65 ) and slightly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 1 ) . Anteocular region twice or slightly more than twice as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 4-0 . 5 ) ; postocular with sides rounded . Clypeus narrow anteriorly , rather abruptly widened on posterior half , conspicuously convex in side view . Genae narrowly tapering apically , distinctly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Eyes in lateral view attaining level of under surface but remote from upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 9-2 . 4 . Distance from ocelli to hind border of eyes subequal to length of diameter of ocelli . First and second antennal segments dark brown to black ; first segment very short , not attaining level of apex of clypeus . Second antennal segment only with adpressed setae , shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 . 1-3 . 5 : 2 . 4-2 . 6 : 2 . 3-2 . 5 . Rostrum with short , inconspicuous setae except on apex of second and on third segment , but not numerous and not forming brushlike structure at junction of second and third segments . First rostral segment attaining level of base of antenniferous tubercle , second attaining level of hind border of head . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 6-0 . 5 . Neck uniformly yellowish or reddish . Pronotum light reddish brown ; darkbrown or black on smooth areas of anterior lobe and with four longitudinal dark stripes on posterior lobe , I+ l in area between submedian carinae and lateral margin of pronotum , and I+ l in space between carinae , adjacent to same . Outer stripes abbreviated in some specimens . Fore lobe granulose on elevated areas , with faint discal and without lateral tubercles . Submedian carinae evanescent before posterior margin . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral angles shortly conical , rounded or tapered apically . Scutellum with variable color pattern , its basal portion dark brown or black , central depression and posterior process in most cases reddish . Sublateral carinae limiting central depression distinct . Posterior process of scutellum relatively short , only twice as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , subconical , sharply tapering from wide base to narrow apex . Hemelytra almost attaining apex of abdomen in males and in some females ; in other females not extending beyond mjddle of seventh urotergite . Corium yellowish brown , with irregular central spot of varied size , extending to costal margin of hemelytron or separated from margin by more or less wide light colored stripe connecting subbasal and subapical light spots , or the latter separated by extended central dark spot . Base and apex of corium dark . Legs reddish brown , stout ; fore femur 4 . 0-4 . 5 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora subapically with 3-4 denticles . Tibiae of first and second pair of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Abdomen rounded below but faintly flattened longitudinally along middle , more perceptibly so in female . Surface microstructure of venter in shape of minute meandering or labyrinthine wrinkles ; transverse striations not developed . Spiracles adjacent to connexival suture or remote from same by distance not larger than their own diameter . Abdomen dark reddish brown . Connexivum light reddish brown . Connexival segments at center with dark brown or black roundish or square spot , larger dorsally than ventrally , in some specimens attaining lateral margin of segment , in others not extending to lateral margin . Membrane as dark as dark portions of corium .