Linshcosteus chota , new species Figures 22C ; 201-203 Linshcosteus carnifex : Ghauli , 1976 , p . 184 ( part ) , figs . 3 , 4 , 14 , 19 , 22 . Male holotype . Length 17 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum 3 . 9 mm , of abdomen 6 . 3 mm Overall color reddish brown ( probably faded from dark brown or black ) . Pilosity short , black . Head with numerous small , low setigerous granules except narrowly along middle ventrally . Head over twice as long as wide ( l : 0 . 4 ) and much longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 7 ) . Anteocular region five times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 2 ) ; postocular with sides feebly rounded , widest at middle , very faintly convex below . Clypeus strongly widened on posterior half , unusually elevated in lateral apsect . Genae narrowly tapering apically , not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae narrowly tapering but not pointed apically . Eyes in side view approaching but not attaining level of under surface and distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . 6 . First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with decumbent setae as long as diameter of segment . Ratio of first two antennal segments 1 : 4 . 8 ; remaining not preserved . Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter on first and most of second segment , as long as or longer than diameter at apex of second and on third segment . Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of level of apex of an tenniferous tubercle ; second not attaining level of anterior border of eyes , third extending to level of posterior margin of eyes . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 1 . 8 : 0 . 55 . Pronotum with sides carinate . Anterior lobe more strongly convex than in other species ; ridges granulose . Posterior lobe strongly rugose , granulose ; submedian carinae extending slightly beyond middle of posterior lobe . Humeral angles very narrowly rounded . Anterolateral processes conical , narrowly rounded apically . Scutellum coarsely rugose transversally , its center slightly depressed ; posterior process approximately as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , conical , narrowly tapering apically . Hemelytra leaving apical third of eighth urotergite exposed . Corium dark ; membrane fumose , somewhat lighter than corium . Legs uniformly dark , slender ; fore femora six times as long as wide . Abdomen as described for L . costalis .