Linshcosteus costalis Ghauri Figures 206 , 207 Linshcosteus costalis Ghauri , 1976 , p . 187 , figs . 9-12 , 17 , 18 , 21 , 24 , 29 . Length of male 20 . 5 mm , of female 21 . 5 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 5 . 0-5 . 2 mm ; of abdomen of male 8 . 8-9 . 0 mm , of female 9 . 0-11 . 2 mm Overall color very dark brown to black , with wide band along costal margin and membranal veins , light reddish or yellowish brown . Pilosity short , inconspicuous , except on light-colored portions of corium . Head with numerous setiferous granules except narrowly along middle ventrally . Head over twice as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 40-0 . 45 ) and distinctly longer than pronotum ( 1 : 0 . 80-0 . 85 ) . Anteocular region four times as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 25 ) ; postocular with sides rounded , widest slightly behind middle ; postocular region faintly convex below . Clypeus widened on posterior half , not strongly elevated in side view . Genae narrowly tapering apically , extending beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae acute but not pointed apically . Eyes in side view attaining but not surpassing level of lower and distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 60-1 . 85 . First antennal segment falling short of level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with decumbent setae shorter than diameter of segment . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 4 . 8-5 . 3 : 3 . l : ? Rostrum with hairs shorter than diameter of respective segments , only third segment with a few scattered setae longer than diameter of segment . Apex of first rostral segment falling distinctly short of apex of antenniferous tubercles ; second segment not attaining level of anterior margin of eyes , third not extending beyond level of hind margin of eyes . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 9-2 . 1 : 0 . 6 . Pronotum black , in some specimens with anterolateral projections , lateral margin and\or submedian carinae tinged with reddish . Sides of pronotum carinate . Anterior lobe not strongly elevated , ridges granulose . Posterior lobe strongly rugose , granulose , submedian carinae extending backward to slightly beyond middle of disc of posterior lobe . Humeral angles broadly rounded . Anterolateral projections small , triangular , pointed , somewhat compressed dorsoventrally . Scutellum black , coarsely rugose transversally , its center only faintly depressed ; posterior process about as long as main body of scutellum , horizontal , conical , narrowly tapering apically . Hemelytra of male falling slightly short of apex of seventh urotergite , those of female extending only slightly beyond base of seventh urotergite . Clavus and corium black , base of corium and costal margin between Sc and R + M and R light reddish or yellowish brown ; apex of corium black . Membrane fumose , dark brown , veins yellowish brown . Legs uniformly black , slender ; fore femora 6-8 times as long as wide . Venter strongly flattened longitudinally along middle , in both sexes ; delicately striate transversally on and near flattened area , irregularly wrinkled on lateral portions of urosternites . Setae short , numerous but not conspicuous . Abdomen very wide , with lateral portions of urotergites amply exposed . Spiracles adjoining connexival sutures . Abdomen dark , irregularly and faintly Clouded with dark reddish brown . Spiracles yellow . Intersegmental sutures , especially on connexivum , narrowly reddish or orange colored .