Panstrongylus chinai ( Del Ponte ) Figures 240 ; 26E ; 28A ; 213-215 Triatoma chinai Del Ponte , 1929 , p . 4 , fig . 2 ; 1930 , p . 868 , pl . 43 . Panstrongylus chinai : Pinto , 1931 , p . 107 . Wygodzinsky , 1948 , p . 204 , fig . 4 . Lent and Jurberg , 1975 , p . 386 , figs . 4-28 . Length of male 22-27 mm , of female 21-25 mm ; width of pronotum of male 5 . 5-6 . 5 mm , of female 5 . 5-7 . 0 mm ; width of abdomen of male 7-9 mm , of female 9-10 mm Overall color brownish black to black , many specimens with bluish waxlike pruinosity ; small reddish marks on neck , pronotum and connexivum , rarely absent . Head uniformly black , shallowly rugose transversally on entire upper surface . Head about one and one-half times as long as wide ( 1 : 0 . 60-0 . 65 ) , and from slightly to distinctly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 05-1 . 20 ) . Anteocular region more than twice as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 35-0 . 45 ) , postocular very short and wide , its sides rounded and converging posteriorly . Clypeus widened posteriorly . Genae narrowly rounded apically , not extending beyond level of apex of clypeus . Jugae small , apically curved , pointed . Head flat or slightly convex above in lateral view . Eyes in side view extending below level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eyes to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 55-2 . 00 . Antenniferous tubercles without apico-external process . First antennal segment attaining level of apex of clypeus ; second segment with inclined stiff setae longer than diameter of segment , some more than twice as long , and also with numerous shorter sensory hairs . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 2 . 5-3 . 4 : 1 . 9- 2 . 3 : 1 . 5-1 . 8 . Rostrum as shown in figure 215A . First rostral segment attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercle , second extending to level of middle of neck . Entire rostrum with very short setae , conspicuous only on dorsal surface of apex of second and on entire third segment , but even there most setae not longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 6-2 . 0 : 0 . 5-0 . 6 . Neck black , with I+ I lateral spots reddish . Pronotum black , with orange-red markings as follows : apex of anterolateral projections , discal tubercles , lateral carinae of fore lobe and 2 + 2 spots along hind border of sclerite , 1 + I on humeral angles and l + 1 at level of submedian carinae . Extension of red markings variable , from v , 1ell developed as described above and illustrated in figure 2158 to almost completely absent except faint reddening of humeral area . Anterior lobe of pronotum slightly convex , with ridges distinct , 1 + 1 small but distinct round discal tubercles , lateral tubercles obsolescent . Posterior lobe of pronotum irregularly wrinkled . Submedian carinae approaching or attaining hind border of sclerite . Humeral angles rounded , slightly explanate . Anterolateral projections variable in shape , from subconical to slightly flattened and rounded apically . Scutellum black , posterior process reddish at apex in some individuals . Scutellum transversally rugose ; median depression shallow but distinct , not extending onto base of posterior process , the latter approximately two-thirds as long as main body of scutellum , subhorizontal , subcylindrical , apex rounded and slightly swollen in dorsal view . Hemelytra approaching hind margin of seventh urotergite , in both sexes . Corium and clavus uniformly dark brown or black , membrane fumose , dark brown . Veins of corium frequently shining , thus more conspicuous than those of membrane . Legs uniformly dark brown or black , slender , fore femora 5-7 times as long as wide . Femora with a slight protuberance apically below but without distinct denticles . Spongy fossulae absent in both sexes . Venter convex , very slightly flattened longitudinally along middle in female . Urosternites striate transversally ; setae of venter short , inconspicuous . Spiracles yellowish , close to connexival border , distance equal to their diameter or less . Urosternites II and III fused . Connexivum dark brown or black , with orange-red irregularly shaped spots in posterolateral angle of each connexival plate , spots increasing in size from anterior to posterior segments ; spots larger on under than on upper connexival surface in some specimens . MALE GENITALIA : Lateral phallosoma processes large , denticulate apically below ; vesica large , semiglobose , heavily sclerotized .