Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus ( Champion ) Figures 81 , J ; lOA ; 12B ; 14A , B ; 243-245 Lamus rufotuberculatus Champion , 1899 , p . 210 , pl . 12 , figs . 27 , 27a . Triatoma rufotuberculata : Neiva , 1914a , p . 61 . Panstrongylus rufotuberculatus : Pinto , 1931 , p . 118 . Lent and Pifano , 1940 , p . 634 , figs . 1-2 . Lent and Jurberg , 1975 , p . 426 , figs . I ( part ) , 2 ( part ) , 195-217 . Mestor rufotuberculatus : Usinger , 1939 , p . 40 ; 1944 , p . 45 , pl . 8 , fig . D . Triatoma coxo-rufa Campos , 1932 , p . 3 . Length of male 24-27 mm , of female 25-28 mm ; width of pronotum of male and female 6-7 mm , of abdomen of male 8-9 mm , of female 9-IO mm Overall color dark brown or black , with light yellowish brown or red markings on head , neck , thorax , legs , and abdomen ; hemelytra tinged with pale green , their markings dark brown . Integument of dorsal body surface with conspicuous golden colored adpressed setae , many scalelike . Head blackish , including antenniferous tubercles , genae , bucculae , and entire under surface of head . Clypeus reddish , black only at base ; dorsal surface of head with elongate reddish mark extending longitudinally along center , approximately Y-shaped , bifurcate anteriorly , extending from level of jugae to interocellar space . Head short and wide , its surface rugose and punctate ; ratio length of head to width across eyes 1 : 0 . 65-0 . 80 . Head from slightly to considerably shorter than pronotum ( l : l . 15- 1 . 45 ) . Anteocular region three to four times as long as postocular ( l : 0 . 25-0 . 35 ) ; postocular with sides rounded , strongly converging toward behind . Clypeus distinctly widened posteriorly , bilobed apically in many specimens . Genae tapering distally , falling short of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt . Posterior portion of head much higher than anterior , slightly convex above in lateral view . Eyes large in most specimens , in lateral view surpassing level of under but distant from level of upper surface of head . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 1 . 30-1 . 85 ; very rarely male , 1 : 2 . 3 , female 1 : 3 . 3 . Antenniferous tubercles with obsolescent apicolateral setiferous process . Antennae with first and second articles black . First antennal article slightly surpassing level of apex of clypeus . Second article with inclined stiff setae slightly longer than diameter of article , as well as with numerous short sensory hairs on under surface of article . Ratio of antenna ( segments 1 : 3 . 0-3 . 5 : 2 . 2-2 . 8 : 1 . 9-2 . 3 . Rostrum with first and second articles black , thirddark reddish brown . First article attaining level of apex of antenniferous tubercles , second ex- tending to level of neck . First rostral article with short , sparse setae , second and third with numerous long hairs , those on third segment longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 1 . 9-2 . 2 : 0 . 6-0 . 7 . Overall color of pronotum dark brown to black . Anterior lobe black , with anterolateral projections and discal and lateral tubercles red . Posterior lobe with part of submedian carinae , explanate portion of humeral angles and l + l small spots posterior to termination of submedian carinae , red ; one large central spot adjacent to hind margin and l + l sublateral spots on disc of humeri , yellowish or orange red . Anterior lobe slightly convex , smooth , its ridges with numerous adpressed golden colored setae ; l + l semiglobose discal and l + l smaller , subconical lateral tubercles present . Posterior lobe coarsely rugose . Submedian carinae extending over three-fourths of length of posterior lobe . Humeral angles salient , from narrowly rounded to subangular , narrowly explanate . Anterolateral projections strongly compressed dorsoventrally , subrectangular , their apex obliquely truncate , anterolaterally and slightly upwardly directed . Sterna and pleura dark , acetabula reddish . Scutellum black , posterior process apically or entirely red . Carinae limiting central depression red or black . Central depression narrow , strongly rugose transversally , rugosities extending onto base of posterior process . Lateral portion of scutellum smooth . Posterior process shorter than main body of scutellum , subconical , horizontal , not elevated at base , its apex rounded , suboval or subglobose . Hemelytra extending to apex of abdomen , in both sexes . Color of hemelytra light brown , conspicuously tinged with pale green . Corium streaked with brown mostly along veins ; membrane dotted with dark , outer membranal cell with compact dark area subbasally . Legs stout , fore femora 3 . 8-4 . 7 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with three or four short denticles , rarely only two , in some specimens up to three minute accessory ones . Fore and mid tibiae of male with spongy fossulae , absent in female . Overall color of legs dark brown or black , femora dorsally with longitudinal red stripes of varied extension and with red apical annulus . Venter convex , distinctly flattened longitudinally along middle , in both sexes . Urosternites delicately striate transversally . Setae of venter golden colored , numerous , slender , inclinate , well perceptible . Spiracles either adjoining connexival suture or distant from latter by not more than their own diameter . Suture between urosternites II and III normally developed . Urosternites dark brown to black ; spiracles enclosed in small yellow spot . Connexivum spotted with light and dark , the light portions orange or rust-red and yellow . Each connexival segment with subrectangular dark spot at center , adjoining outer margin of segment , dorsally distant from , ventrally adjoining connexival suture . Connexival plates anteriorly with dark transversal band adjoining intersegmental suture , in some cases widened near connexival suture . and\or connected to median spot along outer connexival margin . MALE GENITALIA : Endosoma processes present in two pairs , those of proximal pair delicately denticulate apically .