Panstrongylus tupynambai Lent Figures 246-248 Panstrongylus tupynambai Lent , 1942 , p . 227 , figs . 31-33 . Lent and Jurberg , 1975 , p . 432 , figs . 218-239 . Length of male 22 mm , of female 25 mm ; width of pronotum of male 5 mm , of female 6 mm ; width of abdomen of male 7 . 5 mm , of female 9 mm Overall color light reddish brown , with dark brown areas on pronotum , corium and connexivum . Body surface with short , sparse hairs , appearing glabrous . Head uniformly dark brown , neck reddish brown . Head shallowly rugose along middle above , otherwise smooth , polished . Head about one and one-half times as long as wide across eyes ( 1 : 0 . 60- 0 . 75 ) , and slightly shorter than pronotum ( 1 : 1 . 1-1 . 2 ) . Anteocular region about twice as long as postocular ( 1 : 0 . 45-0 . 60 ) , postocular very short and wide , its sides rounded but obscured from above by protruding ocelli . Clypeus widened posteriorly . Genae narrowly rounded apically , not quite attaining level of apex of clypeus . Jugae blunt apically . Head strongly elevated dorsally , highest at level of ocelli . Eyes in side view extending below level of under surface but distant from level of upper surface of head . In dorsal view , eyes of male larger than those of female . Ratio width of eye to synthlipsis 1 : 2 . 0 in male , 1 : 2 . 9-3 . 2 in female . Antenniferous tubercles with very small but distinct apicolateral process . Antennae dark brown . First antennal segment extending slightly beyond level of apex of clypeus ; second antennal segment with inclined stiff setae about as long as diameter of segment as well as with numerous dedicate short sensory hairs . Ratio of antennal segments 1 : 3 : 2 . 3 : 1 . 9 . Rostrum as shown in figure 2480 , E ; first segment as long as or slightly longer than second , extending beyond level of anterior margin of eyes ; second segment attaining level of center of neck . First and second rostral segments with very short inconspicuous setae , thus appearing glabrous under low magnification ; third segment with hairs as long as or longer than diameter of segment . Ratio of rostral segments 1 : 0 . 9-1 . 0 : 0 . 4 . Pronotum with collar and anterior lobe reddish brown or dark brown . Posterior lobe reddish brown , with central dark brown marking on anterior half of space between submedian carinae ; 1 + 1 wide dark markings on spaces between submedian and lateral carinae , extending from transversal sulcus to posterior margin of sclerite . Posterior margin of pronotum narrowly dark . Anterior lobe convex , with low elevated areas . Discal tubercles distinct but not large , rounded ; lateral tubercles smaller , mere elevations of lateral carinae . Lateral markings of anterior and posterior lobes of pronotum forming slight but distinct angle . Submedian carinae low , evanescent on posterior third of posterior lobe of pronotum . Humeral angles rounded . Anterolateral processes of pronotum short , rounded . Scutellum dark brown , posterior process dark or light brown . Scutellum heavily rugose ; median depression well developed . Posterior scutellar process almost as long as main body of scutellum , slightly elevated , slender cylindrical , narrowly rounded apically . Hemelytra of male extending to apex of abdomen , but only to middle of seventh urotergite in female . Corium dark reddish brown , light reddish brown at base and narrowly along margin , as well as an irregular reddish spot subapically adjacent to base of outer membranal cell . Apex of corium almost black . Membrane uniformly dark brown , fumose . Legs uniformly reddish brown . Fore femora 5 . 5 times as long as wide . Fore and mid femora with one pair of subapical denticles , and 0-2 smaller denticles further basad . Males with very small spongy fossulae on fore and mid tibiae , absent in females . Venter with short , inconspicuous setae . Spiracles distant from connexival suture by two or three times their own diameter . Suture between urostemites II and III obsolescent . Venter dark reddish brown . Connexivum reddish brown ; anterior half or third of each connexival segment with black , subrectangular spot adjoining intersegmental suture . MALE GENITALIA : Vesica with l+l lateral projections . Lateral endosoma processes denticulate apically .