RHODNIINI PINTO Rhodniini Pinto , 1926a , p . 490 . Psammolestiini ( sic ) Carcavallo , 1976 , p . 348 ( nomen nudum ) . Small- to medium-sized Triatominae of not more than 26 mm , somewhat compressed dorsoventrally or not . Body surface from smooth to moderately rugose , with very short bristles only . Head not strongly convex above . Antenniferous tubercles without apical spinelike projection . Antennae inserted near apex of head . Genae from slightly to considerably surpassing apex of clypeus , the latter slightly but distinctly widened apically . Ocelli situated posterolaterally behind eyes , in most cases inserted on conspicuous elevations behind interocular sulcus , the latter not fully developed . Head laterally behind eyes with callosities beset with setiferous tubercles . Second antennal segment with 4-6 trichobothria arranged in one row along length of article , and two ancillary trichobothria laterad of base of main row . Remaining setae of second antennal segment of uniform size . Anterolateral comers of scutellum each with small , polished mammiform process . Corium with veins distinct . Abdomen with urostemites covering part or all of ventral connexival segments , connected to latter by simple membrane . MALE GENITALIA : Articulatory apparatus with basal plate bridge well developed . Basal plate struts transformed into short , platelike , curved or convoluted structures . Dorsal sclerotization of phallosoma large , subsemielliptical . Vesica not strongly sclerotized . Fifth instar nymph : Body surface rugosegranulose , with short simple spinulose setae ; head not strongly convex above ; genae slightly surpassing apex of clypeus ; eyes situated well behind middle of head ; antenniferous tubercles without conspicuous apicolateral process ; fourth antenna} segment shorter than some of the preceding ; only fourth antennal segment delicately annulate ; stridulatory sulcus present ; femora subcylindrical or incrassate and compressed , but without denticles , trichobothria absent ; fore tarsi much shorter than half the length of tibiae ; abdomen without series of large tubercles dorsally along middle . First instar nymph : Head , thorax , and legs mottled with light and dark , in addition to other markings ; setae simple or spinulose ; fourth antennal segment not longer than first , second , and third combined ; stridulatory sulcus present ; metanotum longer at middle than at sides ; metanotal plates small , distance between plates larger than twice their width ; femora without trichobothria ; hind tarsi apically without specialized hairs ; setae of urotergites irregularly scattered . Eggs laid in masses or singly .